It was all too obvious what Hao was trying to say. He did not like the current Crown Prince. In terms of lineage, the Crown Prince was the grandson of Hao’s younger half-sister Anshi, so Hao himself was the prince’s great-uncle. However, the Crown Prince’s mother was Gyokuyou. Hao might be a blood relation of the prince, but power would come to reside in the hands of the Gyoku clan.

That alone had to be enough to make Hao sweat. Just when he thought the empress regnant was finally out of the way and he could start wielding power, it turned out that his relative Anshi was passive—and then a clan that he despised as a bunch of western barbarians received a name before he did!

“You may be my uncle, but I must ask you to refrain from offering your opinion on the Crown Prince or his bloodline. This is something I have already decided.”

“Of course, sire, of course. My sincere apologies. What if I were to simply suggest that to me, it appears as if the Crown Prince has only thus far assumed his position?” Hao’s eyes narrowed. It made it look as if, behind his hands, which were clasped in front of him in a gesture of supplication, he was smiling. “It was the same with Consort Lihua’s first royal child. She gave birth to a little boy, and thus a crown prince.”

“Heavens, no. I merely...can’t help thinking. What if that child were alive today?”

“That matter is finished.” Gyouyoh gave his cup a shake, watching the red liquid within it ripple but not drinking a drop.

Yes, that was over long ago. It was widely believed that his child with Ah-Duo was dead. For Hao, it would have been most convenient had that child been alive. If he could become a guardian for Ah-Duo, who had no political backer of her own, he could continue to exercise his influence into the next generation.

And, most unfortunately, that was what Gyouyoh wanted as well.

“Oh, sire, I’m sure he would have grown into a fine young man. Much like Master Zuigetsu.”

Gyouyoh only glowered silently at Hao—but then his vision was blocked.

Hao made a choked sound, his eyes almost bulging out of his head. He found a sword inches from the tip of his nose.

Who had put it there? Gaoshun. He was ordinarily so put-upon, taciturn, with a perpetual furrow in his brow—and meanwhile, people mocked him as a henpecked husband. Not to mention that thanks to Zuigetsu’s selfish whim, he’d had to spend nearly seven years pretending to be a eunuch.

You could call this man a wimp to his face and he would hardly look fazed—but now he had a sword on Hao.

“Wh-What’s the meaning of this?!” Hao demanded. His bodyguards had reacted immediately. This being the Emperor’s chamber, they were not permitted to wear swords, but they were still three imposing men.

“I would ask you the same question,” Gaoshun replied. “What made you think that you could speak the Moon Prince’s name and emerge unscathed?” His gaze was even sharper than his sword, and likewise leveled directly at Hao.

“At this time there is only one person with the right to use that name,” Gaoshun continued. “His Majesty himself. I don’t think you know your place. I might even say you’ve arrogated to yourself what belongs to heaven—a serious crime.”

Gaoshun was a particularly mellow man even among the members of the Ma clan. To see him moved to do what he was doing spoke to just how far Hao had overstepped. To speak Zuigetsu’s name aloud was as good as to assert that he held a position equal to the Emperor’s.

Hao’s guards didn’t move—they couldn’t. Gaoshun would lop off Hao’s head before they could stop him. For that matter, the guards would probably end up dead as well—Gaoshun was just that good a swordsman.

Even back when Gyouyoh and Ah-Duo had wrestled with him two against one, they had never stood a chance.

It crossed Gyouyoh’s mind that it might be nice to simply let Hao lose his head here and now. It would certainly be a load off his mind. But the cleanup would be such a headache. Not just the actual cleanup of the mess in the room—Gyouyoh wanted to avoid weakening Anshi’s family by eliminating Hao. Without the Shi clan, the balance of power at court was skewed. It wouldn’t be a good idea to reduce the number of factions ever further.

Gyouyoh raised his hand, and Gaoshun lowered his sword.

Hao glared at Gaoshun, his face absolutely pale. “What 
right
 do you have to assault me in this manner?!” he exclaimed, spittle flying from his mouth.

“None. I have no status,” Gaoshun replied, and it was true. Members of the Ma clan were never given official positions, and Gaoshun was no exception. “However, I am the sword of the Emperor. And I simply did what the Emperor’s sword ought.”

“He’s right. No one said you could call Zuigetsu by his name. Only I may speak that name,” Gyouyoh said. Hao bit his lip. He was Gyouyoh’s maternal relative—but not a member of the Imperial family, and it was forbidden to speak the names of the highest members of royalty.

For better or worse, Hao was a man who knew his limits. He had his sprinkling of ambition and his helping of foolishness, but no more.

If he had also been a man of exceptional talents, that might have been a problem. It would have made him hard to handle. But the occasional act of idiocy on his part gave an opportunity to tug the reins and remind him who was the master. He would cling to his position as the Emperor’s relative, but he had no thoughts of taking over. He lacked the backbone to dream of putting the crown on his own head.

“Let me ask you a question,” Gyouyoh said. “Do you think it advisable for you to stay here any longer after that display?”

There was a beat, and then Hao answered, “My abject apologies, sire.” His attitude had completely turned around. “I will visit you again, in all humility.”

With that, he left.

Once his footsteps had completely vanished, Gyouyoh rubbed his stomach.

“Does it hurt, sir?” Gaoshun asked.

“Yes... And it got worse just now.”

The piece of pork he had eaten was coming back up, along with stomach acid.

“What do you suppose Master Hao is thinking?” asked Gaoshun.

“Oh, I should think it’s obvious. He wants me to restore Zui as crown prince.”

“I see, sir.” All the sharpness had left Gaoshun’s gaze, and his voice was once more like it always was. “But you have no interest in doing so, do you?”

Gyouyoh paused, then said, “Mm.” He set down his cup of wine, not clearly saying either yes or no.