The former emperor’s reprehensible behavior bore a certain resemblance to something that had led to the rebellion of the Shi clan. That episode had been in some ways a revenge drama staged by Shenmei, whom the former emperor had spurned.

“No, no, no, no,” said Jinshi.

“Yes, yes, yes, yes,” replied Maamei. “There’s no one better.”

“This person is just 
asking
 for trouble.”

“Yes. Which is why we don’t make her the Pure Consort, but the Precious one.” Maamei had that look on her face like a predator’s. The former Pure Consort, Loulan, had been a daughter of the Shi clan and one of the masterminds of the rebellion.

“Couldn’t you come up with anyone else?”

“I’m afraid Master Hao had no direct relations who could be admitted. Several of his more distant relations are in the rear palace, but his honored elder sister seems bent on restoring her honor.”

“Oh, geez,” chorused not Jinshi, but Baryou and Basen.

From the Emperor’s perspective, Hao’s great-niece would be his cousin’s daughter. In order to prevent illnesses arising from marriage to close family members, all other things being equal, consorts would be chosen from the most distant bloodline possible. That was why Lihua, who was a relative of the Imperial family, had been made Wise Consort: Although the four great ladies were all upper consorts, the Wise Consort ranked last among them.

Jinshi doubted Hao realized such factors played a part in the selection of these women.

“She was persistent enough that even His Majesty was obliged to spend one night with her,” Maamei said.

Jinshi narrowed his eyes and took a big bite of bread.

This subject always made him feel awkward, despite the fact that during his time as a “eunuch,” he’d been in charge of preparing for these encounters. Basen looked down, a little embarrassed—he didn’t know much about the rear palace, but he seemed to sense Jinshi’s discomfort.

This was a world where the map of power could shift depending on how many times the Emperor had gone into the chambers of a woman from one faction or another.

“A young lady from the Empress’s faction was admitted to the rear palace at the same time and made a middle consort,” Maamei said.

That, Jinshi already knew. He’d been contemplating what to do about exactly that. Since Gyoku-ou’s adopted daughter had ultimately wound up as one of Empress Gyokuyou’s serving women, someone from their bloodline had to be admitted to the rear palace or it would have left a bad taste in their mouth. So instead, they had chosen to admit the child of one of Gyoku-ou’s other siblings. They decided the daughter of Dahai, Gyokuen’s third son, was a particularly good choice.

The girl had not been consulted about whether she wanted this. It would be impossible to conduct politics if they had to worry about how she felt—but at the same time, Jinshi was aware that they were doing something terribly cruel. At times it tormented him, the thought of how awful a person he could be.

“His Majesty has visited her chamber as well,” Maamei reported.

The Emperor, Jinshi thought, was a very cunning man. He was thinking about what his ill health might later cause. He was thinking, Jinshi suspected, about how to make a soft landing for himself and his country if all should not go well.

“Was that not the same basis on which you yourself recommended high consorts, Moon Prince?”

Jinshi swallowed his food, hard. “Yes. Of course. I simply thought... Well, he’s leaving nothing to chance, sowing his seeds like this.”

“Sowing his seeds” had two meanings.

A middle consort visited by the Emperor would be promoted to upper consort. Those outside the rear palace would most likely suspect her of being pregnant.

Jinshi wasn’t so sure about the Empress’s faction, but at least Hao, the head of the Empress Dowager’s faction, was a relatively easy man to manipulate. They just needed him to jump to the conclusion that the girl was with child. With more game pieces among his relatives, his thinking would naturally change.

“I’ve already sent maids to each of the ladies,” Maamei said. Jinshi could only marvel at her thoroughness.

“Will they be able to fan the flames as necessary?”

“It’s not a matter of whether they’ll be able to. They’ll do it.” Maamei seemed uncommonly invested in the matter.

“We don’t know whether the child will be a boy or girl. For that matter, we don’t even know if she’ll really get pregnant,” Jinshi said.

“There are those who believe that the sex of the child is determined by the condition of the mother’s womb. And I have it on good authority that at a drinking party, Hao claimed that the reason he has only sons and grandsons is because the pregnant women in his family eat only sour foods.”

“Could that possibly be true?” Jinshi asked. He would have to check with Maomao next time he saw her.

But whatever—if that was enough to get Hao to change his thinking, then wonderful.

“I have a handful of other strategies in mind,” Maamei said.

It was better than sitting and doing nothing.

Nothing was what Jinshi could do about His Majesty’s illness. The only thing within his power was to make sure the environment was as conducive as possible to treatment and healing.