Chapter 14: The Patient’s Consent

Thanks to the physicians’ explanations and a few understanding folks, a date for the surgery was finally set. There were still some who weren’t happy about the situation, but they could be cajoled into going along somehow.

“All right, preparations are ready. Let’s do everything we can!”

The physicians, who had spent so long living with the uncertainty of whether the surgery would take place or not, clenched their fists. Then again, it also looked a bit as if they were trying to psych themselves up and banish the thought that if they failed, they would be executed.

Maomao, too, checked to make sure all her preparations were well and truly complete.

One person, though, looked totally relaxed as he examined his tools. Who? Tianyu.

“Hmm hm hmmm!”

He even had the mental space to be humming! The surgical and postsurgical teams were prepping in the same room, so there was no way Maomao could avoid seeing him.

“What’s a guy like 
him
 doing here?” Maomao muttered.

“Now, don’t talk about him that way,” Auntie Liu chided her. “Isn’t he quite good at what he does?”

“Yes...but his ethics leave something to be desired.”

“True, true,” she said with unexpected sobriety. Being Dr. Liu’s younger sister, Auntie Liu had probably known Tianyu for quite a long time. “It can be trouble if someone is skilled but too whimsical.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“One thing’s for sure, though—he doesn’t let anything get him down.”

“That is certainly true.”

If anything, the more difficult the situation, the brighter Tianyu’s eyes seemed to sparkle, as if he enjoyed it. He could keep his cool in any situation, albeit in a different sense from Lahan’s Brother.

“Let’s just focus on the postsurgical care,” Auntie Liu said.

“Yes, ma’am.”

Maomao was preparing clean bandages. She also had antiseptic medicines and salves, as well as concoctions to stop itching, as the surgical site was likely to itch as it healed. They couldn’t have the Emperor inadvertently touching the site and getting it infected.

Their group had also been entrusted with directing the Emperor’s diet based on his postsurgical progress, so Maomao and Auntie Liu were coordinating with someone who was in charge of food.

Now there’s no way we can fail
, Maomao thought, clenching her fist.

It was then that she heard an unmistakable set of footsteps. “Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao!”

“What is it, Miss Chue? And, uh, should you be in here?”

It was Chue, appearing for the first time in quite a while at Maomao’s workplace.

“No worries—Miss Chue got special permission. Besides, what would I ever do without my chief physician Maomao looking after me?” She offered Maomao her limp, motionless right arm.

She’s right—I haven’t checked on her progress in a while.

Maomao gamely took Chue’s hand and started checking the movement of the fingers. She accompanied this with some gentle massage.

“Mmm! Your massage is so effective, Miss Maomao. But my arm is doing all right just now, so maybe you could come with me?”

Was she acting as Jinshi’s messenger again? Maomao cocked her head and decided it would be best to talk to Auntie Liu. It wasn’t that the old lady was officially in charge of anything; it just sort of seemed like the right thing to do.

“I’m not sure this looks like a time I can just slip away for a few minutes. What do you think?” Maomao asked her.

“We’d have to ask my brother...” Auntie Liu looked around to see if Dr. Liu was there.

“Oh, no worries—I have Dr. Liu’s permission too. In fact, he called me here,” Chue drawled.

“I suppose that’s no problem then, but be sure to let the other youngsters know on your way out.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Maomao followed Chue, who took her to a conference room a short distance from the medical office. Several people were already there: Dr. Liu, Luomen, Jinshi, and Gaoshun. They turned when Maomao came in; all of them looked grave.

Maomao bowed her head politely and waited until Jinshi said, “All right. Raise your head.” Since Dr. Liu was there, she was particularly careful.

Maomao was seized by the desire to get right back out of there, but Chue was behind her. She had known from the moment she’d been summoned, of course, that there would be no escape.

“May I ask you to confirm why I was called here?” she said.

“His Majesty has shown a disinclination toward tomorrow’s surgery,” Jinshi replied.

Maomao stood for a moment, her mouth agape. Then she said, “Whoa, whoa, whoa!”

“Don’t ‘Whoa, whoa, whoa!’ me,” Jinshi answered, lips pursed.

“But— But—”

“Maomao,” Luomen said, gently but firmly. Maomao slowly put a hand over her mouth.

“Yes, we all took it that he was of a mind to have this procedure,” said Dr. Liu. “But if His Majesty says no—”

“Then there will be no surgery,” Jinshi said, finishing the thought. Gaoshun nodded, the furrow in his brow even deeper than usual. Luomen just sat there looking very distressed.

“And this when we had finally gained the understanding and agreement of the Gyoku clan—Empress Gyokuyou and Sir Gyokuen.” Dr. Liu looked at Maomao. Word had obviously reached him of her summons by and subsequent explanation to the Empress. “Even Sir Hao, although still not fully convinced, was less opposed than he had been. This was to be our chance.”

Who or what is Hao? Maomao wondered. She assumed he was some important person she didn’t know, which meant there was scant reason to remember his name. Hence, she ignored it.

It was always ultimately the patient who was least happy to have surgery. When that patient was someone so significant, however, that fact became a serious problem.

In Maomao’s mind, this left a question of why they hadn’t gotten the Emperor’s explicit agreement before this. Had everyone simply been working on the assumption that if it would make him better, he would happily undergo the procedure?

No matter how good the chances of success, it doesn’t change the fact that we’ll be cutting open his stomach.

She understood now why Gaoshun was there. But what was 
she
 doing in this company?

“I don’t think this is a subject I can do anything about,” she said.

“Wait until I’m done talking,” Dr. Liu said.

“Yes, sir,” Maomao answered, covering her mouth again.

“His Majesty wishes to host a function before the surgery,” Dr. Liu said grimly.

Alcohol right before surgery? Give me a break!

He was in no shape to drink, so he was probably thinking of tea, but Maomao couldn’t help imagining a lavish banquet.

“Mistress Ah-Duo and I have been summoned to attend,” Jinshi said, and Maomao swallowed hard.

The Emperor, Ah-Duo, and Jinshi—just the three of them, parents and child, even if that fact had never been officially acknowledged. And even if Jinshi himself didn’t know it.

Yep. I’ve got a very bad feeling about this.

Maomao didn’t know what to do.

“Mistress Ah-Duo has indicated that she will attend if you are present, Maomao,” Jinshi said.

Maomao didn’t respond immediately, but she squeezed her eyes shut, gritted her teeth, tilted her head back, and groaned.

I want to say no! Ugh, I don’t want to go!

But saying no was one thing she couldn’t do.

What did the Emperor have it in mind to talk about? Was he thinking of trying to put his personal affairs in order in hopes of shoring up his feelings of vulnerability prior to surgery?

If that process included revealing the secret of Jinshi’s birth, Jinshi might end up with an ulcer of his own. The last thing they needed was for father and son to both end up with inflamed innards.

Maomao made a mental note to bring stomach medicine to the meeting.

“Just what kind of connections did you forge with Lady Ah-Duo during your time serving in the rear palace?” Dr. Liu asked, looking at Maomao with a mixture of amazement and dismay.

“Lady Ah-Duo described Miss Maomao as sort of a drinking buddy!” Chue piped up.

I guess it would be untrue to say we 
never
 drank together...

Was she referring to their meeting atop the rear-palace wall? If Ah-Duo had wine and not tea in mind, that was the only occasion Maomao could think of. It would have been awful trouble to actually explain, however, so she kept quiet.

“That’s the situation. You’ll join us?” Jinshi asked.

“Yes, sir,” Maomao said with another bow of her head. It was the only answer she could give.