Basen shuffled off. Once he was out of sight, Chue turned to Jinshi and Maomao with a smile. “I’m terribly sorry, Moon Prince, but Miss Chue simply must go powder her nose. May I go ahead of you? Ah, yes! I don’t think there’s anything especially dangerous in this palace, so as long as you’re in here, you should be okay without a guard.”

“Oh, no, sir,” Chue drawled. “It’s not the bathroom . It’s powdering my nose.” She winked broadly and then ran off. It was all too obvious that this was a pretext to leave Jinshi and Maomao alone.

“What else could I possibly be?”

“What will you do if it turns out His Majesty’s will names you as his successor?”

“What else? I suppose... I can’t exactly shrug it off, can I?”

“Indeed, sir. It might cause considerable discord in the nation, but I think everyone believes you’d be able to handle it somehow.”

With Jinshi in charge of national affairs, so long as the world situation didn’t get worse, the country seemed likely to enjoy an era of peace. It would be bought, however, with the life of a young man—neither god nor immortal—who would devote himself diligently and without rest to maintaining it.

“Would you be all right without me by your side at that time?”

After a second Jinshi said, “Don’t put it that way. You make me want to make it an order.”

In other words, Jinshi had no intention of putting Maomao in the difficult position of being a consort. This was the man who had once said he would make her his wife—but his consort, it seemed, he would not make her.

“Please don’t burn your flank again. I want to see if I can do a skin graft before you do that.”

“You write it with the characters ‘to plant skin.’ There’s a record of a time when a master who was burned had his slave’s skin ‘pasted’ on to him.”

Jinshi looked dismayed. “Does that work?”

“The record says it failed.”

“It sounds like it would!”

“Yes, sir. But I wonder if the graft might adhere if it was the person’s own skin. I would cut some flesh from the rump and—”

Jinshi reflexively put his hands on his behind.

“Sir! I would never take it by force.”

“Please don’t ever do that to me.”

Jinshi took his hands off his buttocks, although he still looked suspicious.

You’d think I was on the hunt for his ass!

Other parts would work just as well. She’d just figured the rear was wide enough that it would be easy to harvest from.

“Turnabout is fair play,” Jinshi said. “Are 
you
 nervous, Maomao?”

“I should say so, sir.”

“You don’t look it.”

True, she was probably less worried than Jinshi.

“My current goal is the success of the surgery. My greatest concern was that His Majesty wouldn’t agree to the procedure, but now that he’s confirmed that he will, everything is all right.”

“What comes after that doesn’t bother you?”

“I have a special talent for forgetting troublesome things when I need to.”

“Yes, I had an inkling...” In any case, Jinshi seemed to accept the situation. “I take it from your attitude that you have faith the surgery is going to succeed. You did say it had a ninety percent chance of working, but aren’t you afraid of the other ten percent?”

“The surgery itself will succeed. I know it will, because Dr. Liu will be holding the scalpel, and my father Luomen will be assisting him. They’ve also cultivated a number of other physicians who are very skilled with a knife.”

She didn’t love that Tianyu was one of them, but there was nothing she could do about that.

As for the anesthetic that would be administered before the procedure, they would use a combination of needles and a drug with minimal toxicity.

Maomao’s job would be to track His Majesty’s progress after the surgery was over, so that worrisome ten percent would depend on what she and her colleagues did. But dissenting voices had been silenced, the patient’s consent had been obtained, and as far as she was concerned, everything was as good as done.

“You’re quite the optimist,” Jinshi said.

“It’s not optimism. I’ve mixed up enough poison for all the physicians involved to take some should anything happen.”

Jinshi didn’t say anything.

“We’ll all be able to shuffle off this mortal coil with no pain and no sufferowowowow!”

Jinshi had taken a firm grip on Maomao’s cheek.

“You are 
not
 to use that concoction under any circumstances.”

There are no absolutes here, I’m afraid.

Maomao decided, however, to refrain from saying anything that would further upset Jinshi. He was already tired from his encounter with the Emperor.

Even at a turtle’s pace, they eventually reached the exit. Jinshi looked disappointed to be there. But both he and Maomao had tomorrow to deal with. If they were to make it to what came after that, everything would have to be prepared and ready.

“Shall we go?” Maomao asked.

“Yes,” Jinshi replied, and they pushed open the heavy door of the palace.