What’s in a Name (of a Disease)?

Hullo! Thanks for sharing another volume of 
The Apothecary Diaries
 with us!

If there’s one thing Maomao likes almost as much as poison, it’s diseases, and volume 15 centers around a mysterious one. It’s not just a challenge for the royal physicians, though—the translation team also had to do some work to nail down the localization. Let’s take a look!

When the Emperor’s condition is first mentioned, it’s referred to as 盲腸炎 (
mouchouen
). Literally, this means 
inflammation of the cecum
. The cecum is part of the intestinal tract—it connects the small intestine and the colon, the beginning of the large intestine. (Even more literally, the characters 
mouchou
 mean 
blind intestine
, a fact we are confident will serve you well when trying to make small talk at parties.)

The translation team, it’s fair to say, was not familiar with 
mouchouen
 when the term first came up in the book. As we learned many translator’s notes ago, the first recourse with an unfamiliar piece of vocabulary is to look it up! What’s interesting is that if you do a simple online search on 
mouchouen
, almost every hit is actually about another condition, 
chuusuien 
(虫垂炎). In fact, if you look up 
mouchouen
 on the Japanese Wikipedia, it automatically redirects you to the page for 
chuusuien
.

So what’s 
chuusuien
? That one’s pretty easy: it’s appendicitis. (
Chuusuien
 literally means 
inflammation of the appendix
. To add to your store of idle chitchat, 
chuusui
—the appendix—is written with the characters for 
dangling w
o
rm
. That actually makes it pretty similar to the formal English name 
vermiform
 [worm-shaped] 
appendix
.) That should make everything nice and simple, right? Just translate 
mouchouen
 as 
appendicitis
 and we’re good to go.

But wait! While reading Kada’s Book, Maomao finds a warning that mouchouen is frequently confused with chuusuien , and begins to wonder what they’re really dealing with. In other words, the text isn’t treating the two terms as interchangeable; instead, they refer to distinct conditions.

Chuusuien provides the most convenient starting point when trying to decide how to localize these words. Maomao specifically remarks that it has to do with an organ “that looks like a worm,” i.e., the appendix, so we know that she must be thinking of appendicitis proper. However, that leaves us without a translation for mouchouen .

At this point during the actual translation process, the translation team had not yet learned the word cecum . (Another reminder that there’s always more to discover, even in your native language!) Instead, somewhat at a loss for what the mouchou was, the team reached out to another translator. (As with any group of professionals, knowing people who do the same job you do is a useful resource when you’re stuck.) This person succeeded in finding a diagram of the digestive system in Japanese, which included something labeled mouchou . As it happened, this person’s partner is in the medical profession, and identified the mystery anatomy as the cecum.

Our medical informant also clued us in that inflammation of the cecum has its own name in English: typhlitis. In addition to describing exactly the condition the Emperor has, typhlitis has the advantage of being pretty obscure in English—even medical personnel might not recognize it immediately. That means it leaves readers of the English localization with something of the sense of mystery the translation team felt on encountering the term.

Incidentally, these days we have several different ways of managing or treating typhlitis, including antibiotics and blood transfusion. However, one strategy remains a “decompressive laparotomy”—that is, cutting open the abdomen and performing a procedure to relieve pressure in the abdominal cavity. The more things change...

We hope you enjoyed this jaunt through medically induced translation trouble. Have fun, read widely, and we’ll see you again!