They look similar enough, but it’s the attitude. Feilong and Hulan were both perfectly competent, but had the distinct air of bureaucrats. That was well and good, since they were training to be aides at the moment, but picturing either of them ultimately standing astride the western capital as its leader—well, it made one shake one’s head. Jinshi seemed like he was planning to go home as soon as possible once their political instruction was over, but I don’t know.

She looked out to see father and son in the garden—or perhaps we should say the former garden, since half of it had been converted to farmland.

So this was the man that brat—er, Gyokujun—was so attached to. He had hair scruffy enough to make a lion proud, and tanned, rugged limbs. Around his hips he wore the pelt of a deer he had presumably killed himself.

The newcomer looked exactly like Gyoku-ou if someone had turned back the clock to his younger days. The lady-in-waiting with Gyokujun looked positively anxious. The boy’s mother was nowhere to be seen. Maomao was given to understand that it had been a political marriage; maybe husband and wife didn’t get along that well.

The best thing I can do is stay out of it , she thought—but she was at least interested enough to steal a glance out the window. The quack and Lihaku felt the same way; they joined her.

“That’s my boy! Have you been good? Of course you have. Here’s a gift!” The man gave Gyokujun a heaving sack. Excited, the boy looked inside—but the moment he did so, he burst into tears.

What’s in there?
 Maomao wondered.

She soon found out, for tumbling out of the bag came a deer’s head. Yes, maybe that was a bit too stimulating for a child’s gift.

“Ha ha ha!” the eldest son laughed. “Say hello to tonight’s dinner!”

“W-We’re going to 
eat
 this?!” Gyokujun exclaimed through the tears and snot. Just when he looked like he was getting it under control, he burst out crying again.

“Sorry! I’m sorry. Come on, don’t cry. Hey, it looks like a lot happened while I was away. What’s going on?”

Gyokujun whispered in his father’s ear and pointed toward the medical office. His attendant paled.

I’ve got a bad feeling about this.

And she was right: the eldest son soon appeared at the medical office.

“Can we help you?” Lihaku asked, standing squarely in the man’s way. He was usually so affable, but at this moment he had put on his best soldier’s glare.

“My son told me all about you. He said the visitors from the central region have really been throwing their weight around. I thought I’d come say hello to you myself.”

Gyokujun, hiding in his father’s shadow, stuck out his tongue at them.

That little shit!

Maomao scowled at him; if she had ever wondered whether he might have learned his lesson, she certainly didn’t now. The quack had tucked himself into a corner of the office, openly terrified.

“I sincerely apologize if we seem to have been throwing our weight around,” Lihaku began. “However, that insect swarm ravaged the western capital, and we’re groping around trying to find something, anything, to help make things better. Or would you prefer that visitors not do anything to help, but only stand by, eat your food, and watch?”

Lihaku was a good 190 centimeters tall, maybe even a little more. He had some six centimeters or so on Gyoku-ou’s son, although the other man was still plenty burly. No wonder a diminutive eunuch like the quack doctor was afraid.

As for Maomao, she was looking around and pondering, hoping for an opening to knock some sense into the little shit.

If things get physical here, it’ll only waste what little medicine and supplies we have left.

She gave Lihaku a look, pleading with him that if they were going to start throwing punches, they should do so outside.

“Hah! You government bigwigs are something else, you know that? Even I know I have to watch my mouth around the real nobles—but now even their lackeys think they can push me around? How am I supposed to hold my head up? Eh?”

“Surely you jest, sir. I’m only a soldier myself—an underling, as you say. All I do is follow my orders. Now, this is the physician’s office. If you’d still like to talk, perhaps we could do it outside?”

Perfect! Nice work , Maomao thought. More than anything, she wanted to avoid the medical office ending up in shambles. Lihaku understood that and was trying to move the encounter outdoors. If the son decided to throw down with him, well, Lihaku could probably hold his own at least for a while. Long enough for Maomao to run and call someone.

I guess the ideal outcome is that they don’t fight , she thought, but the situation looked like it was ready to explode at any moment. Lihaku understands his position. He was a bodyguard, and if the eldest son decided to turn violent, he would respond in kind to protect Maomao and the quack. But he would understand that he couldn’t throw the first punch.

As for the little shit who was the cause of the dispute...

He’s quaking!

Gyokujun was clinging to his lady-in-waiting. Unfortunately for him, he couldn’t go after the quack doctor like he had before—there were two guards aside from Lihaku standing there.

If he starts anything, those guards will turn him into a punching bag.

The thought had hardly crossed her mind, however, when someone came rushing up.

“Shikyou! Brother!”

It was Hulan. The eldest son’s name, Shikyou, was actually another word for “owl,” and like Hulan’s own name, the connotations were not very positive.

Something else suddenly struck Maomao: 
His name doesn’t include 
Gyoku
?

“Brother, what are you doing?” Hulan asked.

“What does it look like I’m doing? I hear our visitors are too big for their britches! That they treat the members of our household like their servants!”

Servants, huh?

True, Gyoku-ou’s second and third sons had become aides, and from a certain perspective it might look like they were being put to menial uses. Maybe it wasn’t just the little shit Gyokujun; maybe some of the actual servants of the household had their grievances with the people who had come from the royal capital.

“Please, Brother, make sure you hear all sides before you do anything rash. Are you sure you’re not just swallowing what Gyokujun says wholesale?”

“Why, I was just here trying to find out the truth, and they asked me to step outside!”

Whoa, hey, uh-uh!

The son had obviously been looking for a fight from the moment the conversation started. Even Lihaku seemed unsure how to respond.

“Brother Feilong and I are learning from the Moon Prince at our own request,” Hulan said.

“Moreover, it was Jun who was offensive toward our visitors.”

“Hoh...” Suddenly Shikyou’s glare settled on his son. Gyokujun tried to make himself smaller, tearing up once again.

Maomao seized her chance and stepped forward. “He injured the honored physician here. The poor man was unable to walk for several days.”

“Is that true, Gyokujun?” Shikyou was giving the boy a really hard look now.

“I... I just...”

“I’m not interested in excuses,” Shikyou said, his voice like the low growl of a beast. In his corner of the room, the quack doctor commenced quivering.

Gyokujun simply nodded.

Shikyou scratched the back of his neck, exasperated, and then he grabbed the gift for his son and brought it over.

“Here.”

The sack with the deer head flopped at Lihaku’s feet, spilling its contents. The deer’s glassy eyes stared vacantly at the sky.

“I’m sorry for my son’s disrespect. Take this as repayment, if you’d be so kind.”

With that, Shikyou left.

I guess there was something to those stories about him
, Maomao thought. The word that came to mind was 
ruffian
.

“I’m sorry. It seems my brother caused a great deal of trouble,” Hulan said.

“Don’t apologize. You saved our necks,” Maomao said gratefully.

The quack doctor hesitantly emerged from his corner, looking around as if to make sure everything was quite all right.

“Once he realizes his own father won’t even back him up, I expect Gyokujun will start to behave a little better,” Hulan said.

“I can only hope so,” Maomao replied. As far as she was concerned, the kid showed no sign of having learned anything from his recent travails. She strongly suspected he was going to try something again. Then she looked at the reeking sack and asked, “By the way, how are you supposed to eat this thing?” She was glad enough to have it, she supposed, but as an ingredient, she wasn’t sure what to do with it.

“Hmm. Sometimes people stew them to make soup stock, or boil the brains and eat those. Some people also carefully remove the skin and make a decoration of it, if they have a taste for that sort of thing.”

Unfortunately for them, they had nowhere to display a deer’s head.

“The brains, huh? I have to admit, I’m curious.”

An unknown ingredient? She had to try it!

“You’d eat its brains?!” the quack exclaimed, looking at her incredulously.

“We might as well. This head’s ours now.”

“I’m not sure I want...any brains...” The quack doctor drew back.

“Just a small taste for me,” Lihaku said, not looking very eager either.

Maomao regarded the glassy-eyed head and wished that Shikyou had at least given them the antlers as well. Velvet antler could be turned into an excellent energy tonic.