“Interestingly, no. They wanted me to convince the oldest son to accept 
his
 share, which he’s been refusing.”

Now Maomao really tilted her head. The movement felt a little abrupt—maybe there was still some alcohol in her system. “Sir? I’m afraid I don’t follow. The eldest son is saying he doesn’t want the inheritance?”

She thought of Shikyou hauling the decapitated head of a deer around in a bag. Incidentally, she’d had the deer’s brains stewed and then brined in vinegar. It tasted decent enough.

“He says he’s giving it all up.”

“Even granted that Master Gyokuen is still alive, I have to think Master Gyoku-ou’s inheritance comes to a substantial amount.”

“That’s exactly why he says he doesn’t want it. I’d heard he was something of a clod, but this...”

Clod
—there was a word you didn’t hear every day. Maomao thought it was sort of like being a blockhead.

“He should just take whatever is coming to him,” she said.

“There are some things a person may not wish to receive.” Jinshi sounded oddly...sympathetic to the man’s situation.

Ah...

Maomao recalled that she was currently talking to someone else with his own unique way of thinking. He wanted to extricate himself from certain entanglements of his own.

“So the eldest son doesn’t want the inheritance. The eldest daughter does, but isn’t able to do the job that comes along with it. The second son wants the oldest to receive the inheritance, as Sir Gyoku-ou stipulated while he was alive; the third son thinks everything would be easiest if the second son would inherit.”

That pretty much covered the complete spectrum of possible opinions. No wonder they hadn’t been able to come to an agreement.

“The job that comes along with the inheritance—does that mean the inheritor would have to take over the western capital?”

“Yes, that’s it. It doesn’t help that the family doesn’t think well of the eldest son. Dahai tried to intercede, but the discussions went nowhere.”

Dahai—Maomao seemed to remember that was Gyokuen’s third son.

“It sounds very complicated, sir.” She was trying to make Jinshi feel better, but personally she didn’t want any part of this. She would listen politely about the inheritance, offer a few noncommittal comments, and gracefully make her exit when the moment was right.

“Hold on... You’re just making noncommittal comments to get out of talking about this, aren’t you?”

“Perish the thought, sir.”

Jinshi was getting better at reading the subtleties of Maomao’s expression.

“Your pallor is uncommonly good today too.”

“Oh, you think so?”

She’d vomited up most of the alcohol, but she still had a pleasant buzz, and that didn’t escape him.

Maomao knew she would be in for another lecture if Jinshi found out she’d been “experimenting” again, so she decided to change the subject. “Sir, I heard Master Gyoku-ou’s wife was his personal aide. Shouldn’t she be a part of these discussions?”

Women might not have many rights, but surely a man’s wife should have some say?

“Sir Gyoku-ou’s wife dislikes any kind of attention. She just sat there the entire time, offering no input whatsoever.”

I might have guessed.

That would match what Maomao had heard from Chue. Linese men loved quiet, demure women, but in this situation it meant there was no one to take this matter in hand.

“It seems there’s a specific reason why she prefers to shun the spotlight,” Jinshi said.

“Yes, Miss Chue mentioned it to me.” This would be the story of her being in a foreign country for several years.

“I see. For her, even being seen by her own family is too much, and I was told that she had determined to say nothing at all about the matter of the inheritance.”

“Not even to her own family?”

She hadn’t looked quite that misanthropic, Maomao thought.

“So you’ve heard that this woman was originally the daughter of a prosperous merchant family in the central region, and that she began helping with business once she came to the western capital to get married.”

“Er... More or less.” This was the first Maomao was hearing of the woman’s birthplace, but it would explain why she had the facial features of someone from the central region.

“She was in a shipwreck, her fate unknown, until several years later she miraculously returned to the western capital. The situation was beyond her control, of course, but that didn’t stop some people from spreading unsavory rumors about the woman who had left her home for years on end.”

“Ahh. Yes, I understand.”

A woman, alone in a foreign land? A beautiful woman, at that? Of course there would be uncouth speculation as to how she had survived.

The wife’s life so far could easily fill a book.

“I’m sure she underwent a great deal. It was after those experiences that she began to avoid being seen in public. I think it’s even possible that Sir Gyoku-ou’s hatred of foreigners has something to do with what happened to his wife.”

Maomao nodded earnestly, but privately she hoped she could grab a break soon. Her stomach had been emptied of all its other contents along with the alcohol, and she wanted to put some food in it.

“All right, well, I think it’s about time for me to go,” she said. She stood up and made to leave the room, but promptly tripped.

“Hey.” Jinshi was keeping her on her feet with a firm grip on her wrist. “What’s gotten into you? You don’t seem very steady.”

“Oh, gee, do I?” Maomao was starting to sound a little tipsy.

“I thought I might ask you to examine my scar while you were here, but I think something’s up.” He looked at her, suspicious.

“Oh, sir. It’s your imagination! And that scar doesn’t need me to examine it anymore.”

“I need you to see your responsibility through to the end. What if the wound begins to fester?”

“It won’t do that! I don’t even examine the scar on that little girl’s belly anymore, and she’s much younger and smaller than you, Master Jinshi!”

“Well, she’s her and I’m me.”

Without quite meaning to, Maomao gave Jinshi a bit of a scowl. His face actually lit up, as if to say Yeah, that’s the stuff!

“If you’ll excuse me, sir,” Maomao said—but her attempt to make a decisive exit was stymied by a particularly embarrassing noise from her stomach. It had, we reiterate, lost all its former possessions along with the alcohol and was now completely empty.

As if specifically designed to torment Maomao and her yearning stomach, a wonderful smell drifted into the room.

“Curious about dinner?” Jinshi asked with a grin when he saw her face.

“I can’t say I’m 
not
 curious.”

“No? Oh, Suiren, what’s being served today?” Jinshi called into the next room.

Jinshi’s social station was such that normally, he would have been served practically more than one person could eat. The fact that he could even ask what was being served implied that these days, even the Emperor’s younger brother was given only enough dinner to actually finish.

He’s being frugal.

Suiren appeared with a tray, smiling. “Tonight we have steamed chicken with cold vegetables and Dongpo pork,” she said.

Okay, not exactly frugal.

Maomao swallowed hard to keep herself from drooling.

“Would you like some?” Jinshi asked.

It only took her a second to reply, “If you’re offering, sir!” She felt very sorry for the quack back at the medical office, but meat would always get the better of her. She was a little worried that Taomei or someone might look askance at her dining with Jinshi—their social statuses were just too far apart—but so it went. Suiren tucked the pork between some slices of bread and brought it over. What was Maomao supposed to do?

At the very least she asked, “Are you sure it’s all right for me to eat the same food as the Moon Prince?”

“Oh, I don’t see why not. If you’re worried, we could always say you were checking it for poison.”

So she had Suiren’s permission. There was even a chair set out so Maomao could eat.

“All right!” Maomao clenched her fist—but she couldn’t help noticing that something about the meal was different from usual. “Excuse me?” she asked Suiren carefully.

“Yes? Is everything all right?”

“Isn’t the Moon Prince usually served some wine before his meals?”

It was a roundabout way of asking where the hell her drink was.

“Oh, Miss Maomao, you mustn’t! Remind me who it was who was vomiting her guts out just a few minutes ago?” Chue said. How very unnecessary of her.

“Wait, what are you talking about?” Jinshi asked.

“Oh, just Miss Maomao’s bad habit.”

Then Chue described to Jinshi, in detail, precisely what Maomao had worked so hard not to be too specific about.

“And that’s the story!” she concluded.

“Hmm, indeed,” said Jinshi, who had listened attentively the entire time. Then he gave Maomao an overpowering glare.

Curse you, Miss Chue!

Needless to say, no wine was forthcoming.