Maomao gave the middle-aged woman a questioning tilt of her head.

“She means that you are to conduct the examination without physical contact with the young lady,” said the woman, who, unlike her young mistress, spoke fluent Linese.

Okay, wait. This is not what I signed up for.

Why was she even here, then? She felt like the girl was mocking her. Maomao looked at the young patient, wondering how she was to achieve this patently unreasonable demand of doing an entire medical examination without touching her.

“How close would be acceptable, then?” she asked.

The girl cocked her head, apparently not understanding what Maomao had said. Her attendant whispered in her ear.

“The young mistress will permit you to examine her from a distance of sixty centimeters.”

Sixty centimeters?!
 A lot of examining she could do from there!

“All right,” Maomao said. “How much clothing is the young mistress willing to remove?” She suspected the answer was 
not a scrap
, but it was worth asking.

“If she may leave her underwear on, and if the menfolk will leave the room, that would be acceptable.”

She was willing to do all that?

On top of everything else, conducting an examination of a patient who didn’t really speak your language presented problems of its own. Is her head pounding, or throbbing, or aching? Maomao could ask, but she was convinced she wouldn’t get an answer.

To be fair, even being able to speak a few words of Linese was a respectable achievement—it just wasn’t enough to really make herself understood.

“In that case, please allow me to ask about her symptoms.”

Chue took up position next to Maomao, brush in hand and ready to write, simply oozing the confidence of a woman who could get things done. She was ready to make some notes.

“When did she first feel this pain?”

“It started about ten days ago. She looked rather unwell before that, but we assumed it was because of the unaccustomed lifestyle she’s been living the past few months. I’m embarrassed to admit that we overlooked the possibility of actual illness,” the attendant explained.

“What kind of pain is it?”

“A dull ache, she says. However, sometimes it becomes so intense that she drops to her knees.”

If it was so bad that it brought her to her knees, that sounded like a serious problem. But something nagged at Maomao.

“Has she been getting enough exercise the last several months?”

“I should say so. I might even say she’s been getting a bit too much.” The woman looked at the girl and seemed a bit exasperated. The child was lying placidly in bed at the moment, but apparently she could be quite a firecracker.

“Appetite? Well, as a matter of fact, she started eating less about two months ago, but we also attributed that to the unfamiliar environment. The last few days, though, she’s eaten hardly anything at all, and can only take liquid foods.”

“So the symptoms include headache and severe loss of appetite?”

Ahh. This is starting to make sense.

She didn’t want to be touched or examined at close distance, but she was willing to take off her clothes. Maomao thought she knew what might explain all those things—but she still didn’t have quite enough evidence to say for certain.

“Miss Chue.”

“Yes, Miss Maomao? How can I help?”

“Could you get these for me?” Maomao dashed off a list of the items she needed on the memo paper.

“I’m on my way!” Chue dipped her head and hustled out of the room.

“We’re going to prepare some medicine. Please be patient,” Maomao said.

“Did... Did you really figure it out just from that?” the attendant asked, looking at Maomao suspiciously. And well she might: the young woman hadn’t removed her clothing or even let Maomao touch her. It was easy to think Maomao was blowing smoke.

“If this draught works, it will confirm my diagnosis. Or am I not permitted to administer medicine either?”

“Of course you may.”

“Is there any foodstuff that disagrees with the young lady?”

“Nothing in particular, I think. As long as the medicine isn’t unbearably bitter, it should be all right.”

Well, that at least was reassuring.

Chue came trotting back into the room. “Thank you for waiting!” She held up a glass. It carried a sweet smell of citrus and honey, and the glass was perspiring.

Maomao transferred the drink to another cup and took a sip. “This is simply to demonstrate it’s not poisonous,” she said.

“May I try it as well?” the attendant asked. Maomao gave it to her. She took a sip and said, “This is medicine? It tastes...good. It’s so cool and refreshing.”

“Yes, ma’am. If you would be so kind as to ask the young lady to drink it.”

“All right.”

The attendant took the glass to the young lady, who blinked but took a hesitant sip. She pursed her lips and slowly drank a little bit at a time. Finally she stopped drinking at all, her face all scrunched up.

“What’s the matter? Please, drink it down,” Maomao said.

The attendant whispered something to the girl, but Maomao couldn’t catch what it was. She didn’t need to, though; she had the proof she needed.

“So I can’t touch or approach her, but you can?” she asked the attendant. “I think the problem is in the young lady’s mouth. A back tooth, I suspect. If you would kindly check for me?”

“A—A back tooth?” The attendant tried to look, but the girl shut her mouth fast.

“Perhaps you could poke her in the cheek,” Maomao suggested.

The attendant tried it. Maomao almost found the moment funny; it reminded her of Yao and En’en, back in the capital.

When the attendant pressed on the girl’s left cheek, she flinched visibly.

I thought so.

“The source of her headache is a rotten tooth,” Maomao announced.

A minor indisposition as of several months prior, worsening rapidly over the past ten days. Most likely, a slightly infected tooth had been left until the hole had gotten too big. At first it would simply sting, causing the girl to eat a little less eagerly. She would start to chew on the right side of her mouth, to avoid the bad tooth. That would put strain on her shoulder and neck, causing the headaches.

The girl had wanted to hide the bad tooth, but she couldn’t conceal how poorly she was feeling. So she covered by reporting only the headache; meanwhile, her impossible stipulations were presumably intended to avoid having to treat the rotten tooth.

“Can you treat it?” the attendant asked.