There was every possibility—but at the least, she assumed it hadn’t been Jinshi’s idea. If she’d thought for a minute that he was behind it, she would never have left such an obvious clue as the owl on her desk. Jinshi had kept his peace despite Gyoku-ou’s relentless mockery. Shikyou was probably nothing more than a cute little rascal to him.

Maomao joined Xiaohong and let the girl take the lead. Bureaucrats on business as well as servant men and women around the estate glanced at them as they passed, but no one seemed to take too much interest. They had to be careful not to look too furtive; they would look more like they belonged there if they, well, acted like they belonged there.

Xiaohong headed for the door that led from the main house toward the administrative office. Maomao thought she might open it and go right in, but then she veered to one side. “This way,” she said again.

They followed the fence that enclosed the administrative office and the main house until they came to a wooded area. The trees were unusually large for the western capital, but they seemed to be less for display and more to block the wind. Maomao recognized the species, but didn’t remember what it was called—which suggested it was neither toxic nor had medicinal properties.

A hidden passage?

Maomao was starting to get the feeling that whatever was going on, Xiaohong hadn’t been making it up. The door had a clever locking mechanism, and it took the girl a moment of finagling with the key to open it.

How does she know about this thing?

Maomao would have assumed that a hidden passage like this would have been kept secret from everyone but the family’s direct bloodline; even relatives would have been kept in the dark. Yes, Xiaohong was Gyoku-ou’s granddaughter, but subsidiary family lines were seen as less important.

Maomao squeezed through the door and found herself in a long, narrow passageway. There was a fence to either side, and overhead a canopy of tree branches.

There was a man there, his face bloodless and pale—Shikyou. Another child was already with him—the cheeky brat Gyokujun, who was a tearful mess.

Maomao went straight to Shikyou. His abdomen was covered in blood.

“Wh...Who is this?” Shikyou managed.

“The doctor,” said Xiaohong.

Shikyou gave Maomao a look at once appraising and searching.

“A doctor! If you’re a doctor, then help my father! Make him better!” Gyokujun demanded, sniffling noisily.

“Keep your voice down. Don’t shout,” Shikyou said, firm with his son despite his condition.

Gyokujun looked at him, wide-eyed, and answered “Yes, sir,” in a small voice.

Gyokujun was in the direct family line, for what it was worth, and he’d probably been told about the secret passageway. The boy, who had never shown much understanding of his own position, probably thought of it as nothing more than a secret base to play in, and must have shown it to Xiaohong just to impress her.

“May I look at your wound?” Maomao asked.

“You? The likes of you is going to examine me?” said Shikyou, who sounded in control in spite of all the blood. Maybe the wound wasn’t that bad after all—or maybe he was putting on a brave face. One thing was for sure: the blood on his shirt was expanding steadily.

“I don’t particularly care whether I examine you or not, but if we don’t stop the bleeding soon, I think you’re going to die of blood loss.”

Shikyou paused in thought. It was too late to send Xiaohong to find another doctor. It was an open question whether either his son or his niece could locate one of the adults and convince them to come with them. Gyokujun, in particular, might simply bring the quack.

If the injury wasn’t really so bad, Shikyou could afford to chase Maomao away—but if it was as serious as it looked, she was his only hope of treatment.

What will I do if the wound isn’t bad?

It occurred to her that he might try to kill her on the spot to shut her up. If that happened, then—with apologies to Xiaohong—she would have to use the little girl as a hostage. Shikyou might look like a ruffian, but even he, Maomao hoped, would hesitate to harm the niece who had helped him. Hmm, or maybe his son Gyokujun would make the better shield...

After a long moment, Shikyou said, “All right,” and showed her his bloodsoaked belly.

Look at this!

This was a piercing wound if Maomao had ever seen one. The flesh of his side had been torn open. No wonder he was bleeding so heavily.

“Urgh...” Gyokujun mumbled, and Shikyou clapped a hand over the boy’s mouth before he could make another noise. Instead, Gyokujun fainted clean away.

Xiaohong covered her mouth and looked away, but at least she understood that she couldn’t scream.

Apparently, this man Shikyou was very good at putting on a brave face.

“A poisoned arrow?” Maomao asked after a moment.

Shikyou snorted. “Figured that out, did you?”

“It looks like you thought quickly. How long was it before you were able to pull it out?”

Shikyou had been shot with a poisoned arrow and had torn it out himself. Just imagining it made Maomao a little lightheaded.

“Not even ten seconds.”

“Was there any pain? Tingling or numbness?”

“If you wait until you feel the numbness, it’s already too late!”

So he knows something about poisons.

If there had been numbness, it would have suggested the distinct possibility of wolfsbane, a powerful poison that could cause death in less than a minute.

“Where were you attacked?” Maomao asked.

“Do you need to know that?”

If he’d been shot in the administrative office’s hidden passageway, then the shooter would probably have been firing from the administrative building itself or else the main house. And why had he sent Xiaohong to call Maomao, rather than seeking help from someone nearby himself? Perhaps because he didn’t know what an adult sent to call a doctor might do. Even sending a girl so young had been a real gamble.

“What makes you say that?”