Should I take this to mean that this was a family quarrel?

If so, then it wasn’t the central government that had made the attempt on Shikyou’s life, but one of his siblings. There were plenty of people who stood to benefit in terms of the succession and inheritance with the eldest son out of the picture. Xiaohong might be quite fond of Shikyou, but even the girl’s own mother was a potential suspect here.

Maomao urged Shikyou onto his side, then took a handkerchief from her robe. Gyokujun was still unconscious, so she left him where he lay.

“I take it this was a dart, not an arrow proper?” Maomao asked as she pressed the cloth to Shikyou’s abdomen and waited for the bleeding to stop.

“You tore it out before there was any pain or numbness, meaning you had immediate reason to think that it might be poisoned. And the weapon was a blowdart, not an arrow, because using a bow and arrow on the grounds of the estate is difficult, isn’t it?”

When the wound finally stopped bleeding, Maomao took out her needle and thread. It was only the muscle and flesh that had been torn; the internal organs were unharmed. Best to sew it up right away, even if the sutures would be a bit rough.

“Where’s the dart?”

Shikyou handed Maomao something wrapped in a cloth. She saw discolored bits of flesh—and a needle head. She could investigate what kind of poison it was later.

“This is going to sting. Just stay with me. Here goes,” she said, and then she started sewing. True to form, Shikyou’s face twisted, but he didn’t cry out. Xiaohong was looking resolutely away from the scene.

“There. That should do it.”

By the time she had finished stitching, Maomao was covered in blood. She’d come here secretly, but if she went back looking like this, everyone would know she had been treating someone for something .

I knew I should have just ignored the whole thing , Maomao thought, starting to feel annoyed. She cinched a cloth belt around Shikyou’s abdomen. He groaned aloud, but he would just have to live with it.

That takes care of the emergency treatment. There was still a problem, though—if Shikyou left the confines of the hidden passageway now, it would be impossible to know who was a friend and who was an enemy.

Gyokujun was still out cold, and Shikyou was woozy from blood loss. For the moment, Maomao decided to have a look at the dart: a long, thin, cone-shaped needle.

Can’t tell what kind of poison it is. You wouldn’t know just from looking, of course. She could always prick her finger and see what happened—that would tell her a lot—but this was no time to be conducting human experiments. Maybe she could grab a passing mouse or something and give it a quick stab.

The real problem was that her slapdash intervention wasn’t enough; she couldn’t just leave Shikyou lying there.

The question is, how do we move him without being seen?

Maomao was still fretting over the question when there was a rustling in the underbrush. She turned toward the sound, startled.

A face peeked out from between the trees. “What are you doing there?” the owner drawled. “Oh me, oh my! This looks very interesting indeed.”

Maomao only knew one person who talked like 
that
. Chue clambered up the fence and looked down at her. “Hoh, hoh! So that’s where you went.”

“How...did you find this place?” Maomao looked around. She didn’t think she had been talking that loudly, but maybe her voice had carried beyond the passageway.

“Oh, please. You, Miss Maomao? Leave your work for a change of air? I didn’t believe it for a second. I especially didn’t believe you would leave such comparatively important paperwork behind.” Chue rubbed the owl figure between her fingers. “I heard that Dear Brother Shikyou was visiting the main house, but I haven’t seen hide nor hair of anyone for the last two hours. And there’s something in the air at the house and the office. Something strange.”

She was frighteningly sharp. How did Chue turn out to be so capable ? It was also daring of her to refer to “Dear Brother Shikyou” when he was right there, hazy with blood loss or no.

“You look a fright, Miss Maomao! We’ll have to run a bath for you.”

“I’d rather you took care of the patient and these kids.” She indicated Xiaohong and the unconscious Gyokujun.

“Yep, yep.” Chue hopped over and down from the fence. At the same moment, the hidden door opened and several men came through. They started trying to pick up Shikyou and the children.

“Come now, Miss Maomao, this way, please. Here’s a top you can wear.” Chue put her own wrap over Maomao’s shoulders. (“All that blood would just attract too much attention!”) She seemed her usual, lackadaisical self, and yet...

There’s something going on here. Something nagged at Maomao. Not something big—just the sense that Chue was going a little faster than usual. She seemed to be busying herself protecting Maomao, but who was it who really needed the attention right now? Wasn’t it the injured Shikyou?

“What’s wrong?” Chue asked. “Why’d you stop?”

“Miss Chue,” Maomao said and glanced backward. Two of the men had hefted Shikyou between them. An alarm bell was going off in her head.

I absolutely should not say this.

She should toddle off, take her bath, and pretend not to have seen any of this. That would be the smart play.

But there’s still the chance that it was the central government that tried to have him killed. And I don’t think Jinshi was behind it.

Slowly, Maomao opened her mouth. “Miss Chue,” she said again.

“Yes, Miss Maomao? What is it?” Chue was smiling, just like she always did.

“Where are they taking Master Shikyou?”

There was a beat. Then Chue said, “Heh heh! Miss Maomao.” She clapped a hand on Maomao’s shoulder. “You’re such a handful, you know that? Sometimes you are too smart for your own good.”

Chue’s eyes looked a little wider than usual, and they weren’t smiling.