“If you’d be so kind.” Shikyou had barely been conscious when they were brought here; he should be even less sure of their location than Maomao was. How could he be so certain she was right? “Did you and Miss Chue agree ahead of time that this was where you would come?”

Maomao had been sure she was hiding something—but she had never imagined it was a connection with Shikyou. At least that would explain why she wanted Maomao to take care of him.

I smell bullshit , Maomao thought—although it was exactly the sort of thing Chue would say with a joke in her voice.

“Interesting aspiration coming from someone who seems so desperate 
not
 to govern this very province.”

“Haven’t you heard that everyone has a job they’re best at? Get the right person in the right position; that’s what makes things run smoothly.”

That was Shikyou’s way of saying that he believed he didn’t have the capacity to govern I-sei Province.

Not that I can’t see why he would think that.
 What she 
couldn’t
 see was...

“Eh. Not mine to say. You should ask Chue yourself.” Shikyou took another swig of water, then set the dipper aside. He patted Gyokujun where he lay in the bed, and Xiaohong too. “I’ve done these kids a bad turn,” he said. “Yinxing must be out of her mind by now.”

Yinxing. From the way he said the name, Maomao surmised that she was Xiaohong’s mother—that would make her Shikyou’s younger sister.

“She’ll be surprised, but she won’t make a scene. Exactly the kind of bride they were looking for.”

Maomao tried to picture Gyokujun’s mother in her mind’s eye, but she could only summon the haziest image; the woman seemed little more than a silhouette.

That’s some way to talk about a woman who ended up going through so much. Maybe the marriage was a political match, but Maomao still felt a bit bad for the woman to hear Shikyou talk about her like that.

Once Shikyou was satisfied that his son and niece were safe, he started going through the shelves. Maybe he was hungry. He found some flatbread and stuffed it into his mouth. He was looking pretty energetic for a man whose abdomen had been torn open. Maybe he was acting on a deep-seated instinct to replenish the blood he’d lost. The man lived up to his name; he was like a wild animal.

“I think they’ll be making a fuss over my disappearance too,” Maomao said. It had been more than half a day since she’d said she was going to go to the greenhouse to get some air. Chue would have known what a disturbance would result from Maomao’s abrupt vanishing, yet she’d brought her anyway. Why?

“That’s a real shame. But it’s not my fault.” Shikyou summarily disavowed all responsibility and continued turning the place upside down. He was rewarded with cheese and more dried meat from the shelves.

So Shikyou and Miss Chue had some connection. That suggested that it wasn’t the central government that had attacked Shikyou, but some other power. If the attack had come from either the main house or the administrative office, the chances that it was someone on the inside seemed high.

And again, Chue had brought Maomao along with them...

Was it to hide her connection with Shikyou?

No, no. That explanation felt so close, and yet so far. She sensed there was another reason. Throw in the fact that Shikyou apparently knew this was the post town, and...

Were Shikyou and Miss Chue originally supposed to 
meet
 here?

Was that why Chue had seemed so busy? Maybe she’d dumped all that paperwork on Maomao in order to keep her from wandering around outside. Yet this was hardly the easiest place for Chue and Shikyou to meet. So why here?

Was he originally planning to meet someone else? And had he been attacked before he could meet them? Whoever attacked him, maybe they were trying to stop him from getting to whomever he was supposed to see.

Someone he was supposed to meet here in a town full of foreigners.

The answer practically appeared of its own accord.

Shikyou watched Maomao pondering. “Looks like you’re as sharp as you’d expect Grand Commandant Kan’s daughter to be,” he said.

“That old fart is a complete stranger to me.”

“Ha ha ha! I guess young women push back against their fathers in every family.” Shikyou laughed merrily and took a bite of meat. “Like I said, you seem like a clever girl. If you figured out that this is the inn town, then you can probably also guess what I’m here to do.”

“I’m afraid not. Incidentally, do you think I could go home soon?” Maomao was very interested in leaving before things got any further out of hand. She didn’t want this turning into another “Shi clan” thing.

Jinshi has his hands full already anyway!

“Don’t worry; no one’s going to hurt you. Anyway, just wait until Chue gets back. It won’t be long.”

Shikyou commenced eating ravenously, quite unbothered by Maomao’s presence.

On the cot, Xiaohong’s eyes drifted open. “Un...Uncle?”

“Oops, did I wake you? I’m sorry, sweetheart.”

“You were hurt! Are you okay?”

“I’m fine. I’m all better now. Thanks to you, I’m all right. Hah! And Gyokujun was too scared to move a muscle. Well, you showed him!”

Shikyou patted Xiaohong’s pale hair. “We might not see your mom for a while, but you’ll be with your uncle, and that’ll be fine, won’t it?”

Xiaohong thought about that for a second, then nodded. “Yeah!” She did seem to like Shikyou a lot. At the same time, Maomao thought she saw another reason Gyokujun tormented Xiaohong. Who wouldn’t be jealous if their beloved, nearly absentee father liked their cousin better?

Shikyou lightly toasted some cheese and put it on some bread, then gave it to Xiaohong. She looked hesitant at first, but her uncle had given it to her, after all, so she started taking little bites.

“All right, fair enough,” Maomao said. “When is Miss Chue supposed to get here?”

“Within a few days. It won’t take longer than that for everything you’re imagining to be over. But during that time, you cannot go outside.”

“It’s a shame I don’t have anything to do here.”

“It’s not like we were planning on having you. I’m assuming you spoke up when you should’ve kept your mouth shut.”

Maomao didn’t reply immediately to that. Yes... Yes, she had. If she’d pretended not to know anything instead, would Chue have let her walk placidly back to the medical office?

I’m not actually sure.

One thing looked increasingly certain, though: Chue had been acting with a great deal of freedom. Oh, she’d always shown autonomy, but she was Baryou’s wife, so Maomao had always assumed she was acting more or less on Jinshi’s orders. But she would never have brought Maomao all the way to this town if she was serving him directly.

Whoever her boss is, it’s not him.

And there was something else.

There’s a very good chance that their motives and Jinshi’s aren’t the same.

All right. If Chue and Shikyou wanted the same thing, did that mean Chue was on I-sei’s side?

What am I supposed to believe now?

Maomao heaved a sigh and opened the weathered holy book. She just happened to open to the page that said O Lord, do You see us?