He was saying that there would be no harm to the medical assistant—in other words, to Maomao.

“And 
is
 there plausible deniability?”

“I believe so. As long as we don’t go out of our way to provoke them.”

“Provoke them...” Jinshi muttered. Unfortunately, diplomacy offered plenty of opportunities for provocation. It was so often about tripping each other up, fighting to get yourself into the most advantageous position. It wasn’t pretty, but when you were chasing your own country’s advantage, it was easy to ignore the other party’s feelings.

And when a royal family was involved, nearly anything could devolve into war.

“Why did Hulan want this person examined?”

“I’m afraid I have no idea. But he could have made any number of connections that way.” Baryou’s genuine ignorance was apparent in his voice.

“Moon Prince,” Basen said slowly. He had been quiet until this moment.

“Er... I heard something, once...”

“What? What did you hear?”

“Someone said that Sir Hulan is on good terms with his eldest brother, and that he supposedly asked Sir Shikyou to make some foreign connections.”

“That’s strange. I thought Hulan was insisting that his second brother, Feilong, should be the successor.”

“But I gather the first and third sons are cordial with each other, and often talk together.”

Shikyou: the oldest of Gyoku-ou’s four children, regarded by all and sundry as little more than a nose-picking brute. If he was the one who had brought the Ri nation’s fourth prince into Li, then the question of how to respond became more complicated.

“Moon Prince. I think it may behoove you to distance yourself from Sir Shikyou for a while.”

“Yes, I understand.”

For better or worse, the only time Jinshi had really met Shikyou face-to-face so far was at the conference to discuss Gyoku-ou’s inheritance.

“As long as it’s someone else involved, there are still ways around this problem. But if it turns out you’re connected to the matter, sir, then this won’t just be I-sei Province’s problem—Li itself will be seen as picking a fight with the Ri kingdom.”

One certainly wanted to avoid that. And to that end, Baryou was prepared to become the lizard’s tail.

“Shikyou...” Jinshi heaved another sigh. This would weigh heavily on him as he met the Ri emissary.

The meeting was to be held neither at the administrative office nor the main house, but at the western capital’s most luxurious restaurant—the entirety of which had been rented out. It would be conducted in the presence of Feilong and his uncle, Gyokuen’s second son.

The Ri emissary and his party gave Jinshi appraising looks. They hid it well, affecting genuine politeness, but Jinshi had spent enough time being sized up in the rear palace that he saw right through the act.

Li was many times—many tens of times—more powerful than the Ri kingdom, but the knowledge that the Ri had a massive federation behind them gave the emissary a big head. What’s more, the Ri people were, by and large, brawnier and hairier than the Linese. Jinshi could see the contempt in the emissary’s eyes.

For that reason, he made sure to choose someone especially tall and imposing as his bodyguard. Lihaku might have made a good choice—he could think on his feet, and Jinshi had some trust in him. But he had been with Maomao when she had gone to see the person who might have been the fourth prince, so for safety’s sake, Jinshi decided to have Lihaku wait in the wings for now.

Basen had grown substantially of late, but he still hadn’t reached his full height, and he had that hairless baby face. Jinshi instructed him to dress not as a soldier, but like one of the administrators. Basen didn’t like it much, but acquiesced when Jinshi said it was to throw the Ri delegation off. Nobody would suspect a clean-shaven bureaucrat to be capable of taking on a dozen men with his bare hands.

Rikuson recused himself from the meeting, claiming he still had work to attend to. Jinshi had thought this would be a good moment to have him along, but at least it looked like he didn’t mean to cause any trouble. Jinshi had the distinct sense that the man had grown rather more carefree lately.

He asked Hulan, Chue, and even Baryou not to be present, since they had all been on the trip to see the maybe-prince. He would particularly miss Baryou and Chue, who with their gift for languages would have been helpful interpreters, but there was no way around it.

Given this dearth of close aides, Jinshi was very grateful that Gaoshun would be with him.

Such were the trials of diplomacy. If they were simply going to stand there and accuse each other of things, then there was no need to worry about the feelings of a country that wasn’t even a friend.

Nonetheless, Jinshi knew that his own face would help in a negotiation. He was shown to the room, and the moment the emissary and his party saw him, they froze. Then they stared intently at the scar on his right cheek and heaved sighs of disappointment.

People sometimes mocked him for his looks, but it seemed the smile of a celestial nymph worked just as well on foreigners as it did on his compatriots. It might have been even more wildly effective had he been a woman, but that would have brought its own dangers, as Jinshi well knew. People not infrequently remarked that it was a good thing he had been born a man, so that the country need not fall to its knees under his beauty. If heaven was going to give him a gift, Jinshi often thought, he wished it had given him some actual talent, instead of just a pleasant appearance for people to make light of.

As often as his looks had made his life more difficult, however, they had just as often helped him. If he could use them now, then he would.

As emissary, the Ri had sent a man who much resembled an ordinary Linese, with yellowish skin and brownish hair. Only his thicker body hair and largeish nose and eyes gave away his foreign birth.

He was refreshingly direct about the purpose of his visit. “A nobleman from our country is missing. Do you know anything about it?”

The subject was as expected. The man’s tone seemed abrupt, but he was speaking through an interpreter, so it was hard to tell how respectful he was actually being. The emissary avoided mentioning the person’s age and referred to “a nobleman” instead of a member of the royal family, but the question aligned with what Jinshi had been told.

“There is a possibility of kidnapping. If you know anything, we would like you to tell us immediately.” To all appearances, the emissary looked deeply concerned for this missing noble, from the furrow of his eyebrows to the slight trembling of his hands. If this was an act, he was doing a very good job.

Had the freak strategist been here, he would have known the truth immediately, no matter how good an actor the man might be—but Jinshi didn’t have the courage to bring him to a diplomatic meeting. It would be like lighting a pipe by a powder store.

Jinshi had to consider all the potential possibilities.

“If my older brother has caused any kind of problem, please allow me to be part of this discussion,” Feilong said with a grim look.

“My nephew’s indiscretion would be my responsibility as well. I urge you to make a fair judgment, without regard for us personally.” This came from Gyokuen’s second son.

As blood relatives, they were prepared to accept punishment, but what was “fair” in this case was hard to say. Normally, it would be impossible to make such a judgment without better information. If priorities had to be chosen, however—what should come first?

Suppose for a moment that the noble in question was indeed the fourth prince. If they took the emissary’s words at face value, then the prince had been kidnapped and brought to Li. It would be most natural to assume Shikyou had been behind it.

If he had been involved in the abduction of a foreign royal, there would be no protecting him, even if he was the son of the former governor. Worse, everyone knew what a black sheep he was. It would be best not to be involved with him, but be ready to simply cast him aside if there was any trouble at all.

It might sound cold, but that was diplomacy. Letting a man run free when he caused strife with another nation or even sowed the seeds of war would result in tens or hundreds of times more deaths than merely his own.

Suppose the emissary was not telling the truth, however. Then the proposition was different.

Without clear information, it could be impossible to decide what to do. Jinshi would have to order Shikyou to be put under observation for some time, perhaps even barred from entering the main house or the administrative office.

Even though they were meeting in a restaurant, the talks ultimately concluded with hardly a bite being eaten. The emissary and his party said that they would be staying at an inn for a while. Jinshi didn’t know just how long that was, but he would have to keep his guard up.

Sadly, it’s always at moments like this that the trouble happens.

Jinshi left the restaurant and climbed into his carriage. He requested some water to wash down the meal he had barely eaten. Basen had loosened the collar of his administrator’s outfit; apparently he found it constraining. Thankfully, they hadn’t needed him in the end.

Someone knocked on the carriage door.

“What is it?” Basen looked suspiciously out the window.

“A message, sir,” said the person outside, who handed them a letter with a simple wax seal. It was from Baryou.

“What does it say?” Basen asked Jinshi, who opened the letter and looked at it.

He pressed a hand to his forehead. “This is very bad timing.”

The letter stated that Shikyou had appeared at the main house and insisted on coming in, until it became a fight.

Why did the trouble always have to happen at moments like this? Jinshi couldn’t believe it.

And then he read the rest of the letter.

“Master Jinshi, you don’t look so good...”

“That idiot. That absolute idiot!”

Baryou informed him that Shikyou had been wounded and run off—and that Maomao had gone to treat him.