I don’t think any of them look like the brawling type offhand , she thought, although she observed one person sitting in a corner nursing some alcohol. They’d been glancing in the direction of Maomao’s party for a while now. Trying to decide who to target, maybe?

Maomao’s table had just two women and two children at it. Yes, they had the pair of drivers who doubled as bodyguards, but they made it a point not to eat at the same time. Unfortunately, a small party of women and children might as well have been carrying a sign that said Please rob us .

“There should be another guard I can trust in the next town.”

Meaning, the lady biaoshi didn’t want to take on just anyone. No unknown quantities. Maomao got the distinct impression that, woman or not, this biaoshi would be a force to be reckoned with.

“Maybe we should have at least one of the drivers eat with us?” Having a man at the table would give people a different impression of them.

“A lot of people in I-sei Province think it’s inappropriate for a woman to share a table with a man from outside her family.” In other words, it wouldn’t play to their cover. “I’m going to have to make preparations for our move to the next town. I’ll leave one of the guards with you. Don’t come out of your room.”

Maomao would have liked to explore this area a bit, but she was going to do as the biaoshi said. They were a long way from the central region, and safety was not guaranteed.

“I know it’s boring just to wait around. Read a book or something,” the biaoshi said.

The only book Maomao had with her at the moment was the scriptures from where she’d been confined. It had just sort of turned up in the covered wagon. She suspected Xiaohong had brought it.

Maomao had no particular interest in the holy text, but with absolutely nothing else to do, read a book it was. Naturally, Gyokujun set to bullying Xiaohong. So much for reading quietly.

The biaoshi came back a couple of hours later. In addition to whatever else she had done, she’d also been shopping, and had a large bag with her. She didn’t look very happy, though.

Maomao had grown tired of reading and was playing with Xiaohong. The best they could muster were marbles played with shells and stones, or cat’s cradle—games that passed the time but did little else. Gyokujun had huddled up in a corner. Maybe his head hurt from Maomao smacking it.

“Doesn’t look like you’re bursting with good news,” Maomao said.

“I’m afraid not. The plan was for us to meet my comrade in the next town, but he seems to be off the trade route at the moment, and I couldn’t get any information on him.” The biaoshi placed the large bag in front of Maomao.

“Off the trade route?” Maomao asked, opening the bag as she spoke. Inside she found provisions like dried meat, furs to keep off the cold—and medicinal herbs. That made her eyes sparkle.

“The merchants decided to avoid the main road; it’s full of bandits. There were already enough of them, and their numbers have only grown since the swarm. No food, no money, and lots of people out of a job. With the road so dangerous, better to bypass it and head for the next town after that.”

The bandits might be starving, but if they stole all the food from all the merchants, soon there would be nothing left to steal—but some of them weren’t thinking that far ahead.

“But I thought there was a biaoshi agency that you could trust in the next town?” Maomao was positively grinning now as she laid out the herbs. All her caution had turned to medicine.

The other woman shook her head. “I said I knew a guard there, not another biaoshi.”

It was true; she hadn’t specified a biaoshi. Maomao sniffed the herbs industriously. Xiaohong copied her, but quickly pressed a hand to her nose and turned away—they were very pungent herbs.

“You know,” Maomao said, “I’ve been starting to wonder. Hasn’t it been long enough that it should be safe to return to the western capital?”

“I can’t be sure of that right now. My mission is to send you home only once the danger is completely past. I can’t send you back on a whim.” The biaoshi sounded very firm. Maomao still didn’t understand exactly why she was dragging them all over creation, but on this point at least Maomao sensed that she was telling the truth. “Unfortunately, I’m also not sure what to do if we can’t make contact with my friend in the next town. I’m considering going there anyway, on the understanding that it will entail some danger. What do you think?”

Maomao, now checking to make sure the herbs were dry, groaned. “It doesn’t sound like I have much of a choice. For one thing, we’re going to run out of money if we just keep wandering the back roads of I-sei Province.”

“It does take a bit of the load off my shoulders to hear you say that.”

From the folds of her robes, the biaoshi produced a small jar: a delicately glazed piece hardly larger than the palm of her hand.

“What’s that?” Maomao asked. She put down the herbs and squinted at it.

“A nerve toxin. It can’t stand up to much heat, so don’t get it too warm, if you’d be so kind.”

“You gathered snake venom without me? I would have helped!” Maomao took the jar and gave it a gentle shake. She heard a faint splish . She could only imagine how many snakes the woman must have caught to gather so much venom. Snake venom was less stable than mineral poisons and readily lost its potency, particularly when heated. Maomao had learned that from a book—and had confirmed it by her own experience.

“I’m impressed you guessed it was snake venom. You’d be surprised how easy it is to come by at the butcher’s.”

In this inland area, fish was rare; snake tasted similar and was rich in valuable nutrients.

“Any scorpion in there?” Maomao asked.

Maomao realized the biaoshi was serious. The more varieties of poison there were in a concoction, the more difficult it was to devise an antidote.

“Take this too.” The biaoshi handed her a needle wrapped in cloth. The needle was fixed in place so that as long as the cloth was wrapped around it, it could be carried safely. “If anything happens, prioritize your own life.”

So in other words, no matter what, survive. Is that it?

Even, the biaoshi was telling her, if she had to kill someone to do it.