“I’m afraid not. Perhaps you could tell me, sir?” Hulan looked very confused, and he wasn’t the only one. Jinshi and the others had no idea what was going on either.

Jinshi didn’t say it out loud, but he shook his head no. No point denying it now.

“Then was this little liar aware that Maomao was somewhere else?”

Jinshi had told only a handful of his most trusted subordinates about Maomao. Even Basen hadn’t known, for fear that he might give the game away. So, no, Hulan shouldn’t have known about Maomao’s situation. Why did he know that his answer was untrue?

“Hulan...” Jinshi’s eyes narrowed, and he fixed his gaze on the humble young man.

That was when the master physician returned with a bottle. “Master Lakan, I brought the drink!”

“Why, thank you.” Lakan took the bottle and popped out the cork, keeping his face turned away so he wouldn’t get drunk on the fumes. Then he flipped the bottle upside down, emptying its contents all over the papers.

“Oh! Those poor papers... Whatever are you doing?” asked the physician, who was perhaps the only one who could question Lakan so directly to his face.

“This,” the strategist replied. His aide was already there, holding a flint. Lakan took it and struck it in the direction of the alcohol-drenched papers. They immediately lit in a great burst of flame.

“My goodness! Master Rikuson’s papers!” Hulan exclaimed.

“Forget his papers! I want you to tell me why you knew something you should never have known!” Lakan demanded, his face red in the light of the fire.

“I didn’t know anything. It just seemed strange. Why would they send someone so prized as Lady Maomao on a days-long shopping expedition?”

“Let’s try a different question, then. Did you try to entrap Maomao?”

This time Hulan didn’t say anything.

“Did you try to test her?”

Still he was silent.

Jinshi saw that Lakan’s interrogation wasn’t going to get anywhere at this rate. He was too fixated on one and only one thing: Maomao. There was a better question in this situation.

“Hulan... Was Shikyou in your way?”

At Jinshi’s question, Hulan smiled ever so faintly. “Yes. He’s not suited to be our father’s successor.”

“So little suited that you would kill him?”

“It seemed like the way to avoid any trouble in the future. The way to ensure work would go as planned.”

Now it was Lakan’s turn to be silent.

“Say my brother was alive. What use would it be if people saw him as the successor to our father, Gyoku-ou?”

Jinshi had been looking for a traitor on the inside—but he still didn’t know what that traitor was thinking.

“Brother Shikyou is unnecessary if the western capital is to be run as smoothly as possible. I simply sought to remove that which we didn’t need.” Hulan smiled widely, then abruptly took off his shoes. “My body may burn, but I shall be content.”

Still smiling, he stepped into the conflagration of paperwork.

“What are you doing?!” Basen lunged forward to pull him out of the flames, but Hulan dodged him, dropping to all fours and clinging to the floor. Even as his clothes, his hair, his very skin scorched, he smiled.

“You must be crazy!” Lahan’s Brother rushed over with some pond water and doused Hulan. Gaoshun was in action, too, issuing orders to the guards and Lakan’s aide.

As for the good doctor, he was out cold, a froth of bubbles around his mouth.

Lakan gave Hulan an icy stare where he crouched on the ground.

“What would drive you to this?” Jinshi asked. He was startled by how rational he found himself as he regarded this incomprehensible creature.

“Cloth! Give me a cloth!” Basen shouted. He wrapped Hulan and dragged him to the medical office. The physician wasn’t going to be doing any treating, so they would have to get someone to come from the clinic in town.

“Gaoshun,” Jinshi said.

“Yes, sir.”

“Shikyou is innocent. I think it might be advantageous in this case to cooperate with him to find the fourth prince.”

“As you say, sir.”

Gaoshun was already moving. Lakan turned to Jinshi, looking unimpressed. “Hoh. Is that your play, Moon Prince? It’s always possible this Shikyou of yours is plotting something.”

“We’ll find that out readily if you accompany us, will we not, Sir Lakan? Or would you delay your daughter’s rescue simply because you don’t like me?”

“Well! Look who’s grown a spine.”

“I had to. 
Someone
 put me through my paces.”

He had found his traitor. What to do next, then? Jinshi sprang into action—it was the best way to get Maomao back.