It was almost as if whoever had done the stitching had known that Maomao had no interest in clothing, and had known that she would pick up on “patching the tears,” like it was a code word. It was the sort of thing someone would have to know Maomao very well to orchestrate. The words on the sleeve had been such that only she would understand, and she would do exactly as they ordered.

There must have already been a collaborator in this town. The middle-aged woman, Maomao was sure of it. No wonder she had already known that Maomao and Xiaohong were supposed to be mother and child. She always had seemed suspiciously talkative for a homespun resident of a nowhere burg.

“Did you have some prearranged mode of communication?” she asked.

“I just sneaked in and told her. Well, by which I mean we had an arranged drop point where I left written communications.”

“You had someone who could do that?”

“Sure. Someone who’s very good at it.”

Maomao thought for a second. “Would that be your lady biaoshi?”

“Don’t tell me. Is she—”

Before Maomao could get the question out, the door opened.

There stood the lady biaoshi. Thirtyish, gallant, but oddly approachable. Maomao squinted and took the woman in from head to toe. She was tall, and her voice was deep and clear. Yet something nagged at Maomao. Nagged at her enough that she was moved to ask:

“Miss Chue?”

It hardly seemed possible, and yet...

“Hee hee! Oopsie! Figured me out?” The lady biaoshi struck an absolutely silly pose. The commanding, collected image she’d maintained until that moment shattered like glass.

“Please spare me your strange behaviors when you’re dressed like that. My brain can’t keep up,” Maomao said.

In fact, she was wondering how someone could turn into such a different person. Chue’s height was different by some nine centimeters; the very structure of her body seemed to belong to someone else. Her movements, usually crowned with her unmistakable footsteps, were every inch those of a trained soldier.

Most of all, Chue had been ninety-percent comedy, leaving Maomao to wonder who the tough-looking biaoshi was.

“This is my most bestest disguise that I have more confidence in than any other, and you still saw through it, Miss Maomao. Hrm. My poor self-confidence! It’s been taking a beating lately!”

“If it makes you feel any better, I would never have realized if it weren’t for this embroidery.” Maomao showed Chue the design of a sparrow—a chue —right there on her sleeve. It almost felt like a tease. This little hint at the lady biaoshi’s true identity had been like a message from Chue saying that she would soon come to rescue Maomao and Xiaohong. Maomao suspected Chue had several collaborators in the town, and that they exchanged information via code words.

“By any chance, is the man they called laoshi also an acquaintance of yours?” she asked.

“Very clever!” Chue said.

Maomao let out a sigh. No wonder Chue had been so hell-bent on teaching her the line from the scriptures. If only she’d also said why she was teaching it to her! Well, it was too late to complain now.

“I think you have a few things to explain too, Miss Chue.”

“Fair enough! Where shall we start?”

With that, Chue let down her hair, and the piercing gleam in her eyes changed to something more like the pleasant look that Maomao was used to. Chue rubbed her fingers over her skin, and little white flakes came off—she hadn’t just used makeup to change her skin tone; she’d used a special glue to change the shape of her face.

“Maybe you could tell me how you and Master Shikyou are related,” Maomao said, looking from one of them to the other. Chue gave a broad grin. Maomao went on, “Miss Chue, you always talked about Master Shikyou as if he were a good-for-nothing, or at least someone I should keep my distance from.”

“That’s right. I was telling the truth the whole time, you know!” Chue said, the drawl returning to her voice. “You remember those bandits who attacked us, Miss Maomao? They really did work for Shikyou once.”

That was when they had gone out to the farming village with Lahan’s Brother. Basen had left those particular scofflaws in a sorry state.

“In the sense that they were at the biaoshi agency when I bought it,” Shikyou said. “But they were always ruffians. I kicked out everyone I couldn’t trust to guard our charges, and the ones who really didn’t like it took up banditry in our territory, or joined up with the bear-man.”

I guess a biaoshi agency can’t have untrustworthy people around, can it?

Maomao wondered where that left the men who had explained what was going on and then abandoned her in the woods. Yes, they had broken with their job, but in her eyes they had been honorable about it.

“Does this somehow also explain the incident with the wine?” Maomao asked.

“Oh! Er...ahem, no. That was stuff I meant for my own private consumption, but I didn’t have anything to put it in—until I found the perfect empty bottles. But then someone mistook them for a shipment and sent them out.” Shikyou fidgeted uneasily. At least he was telling the truth, but he had still done his aunt a bad turn.

“You see how he is! And you wonder why I thought you should keep your distance, Miss Maomao,” said Chue. She’d finally shed all of her biaoshi makeup—it really was her under there.

“Huh! So that’s the story.” Maomao had the sense that they were still hiding something, but she decided to take what she could get for now. “I still don’t know how the two of you are connected. Miss Chue, maybe you could tell me what it is you’ve been up to?”

“Certainly. I don’t mind saying, my life has been very hard since I escorted you away from the main house. Uncovering the traitor who attacked Shikyou, explaining matters to the Moon Prince, and keeping our dear quack off the trail! But worst of all was that strategist. Do you know how I toiled? How hard I worked? Of course, then I met up with you, and the Moon Prince and our quack and the master strategist became someone else’s problem.”

She didn’t go into the details of how she had kept them all at bay, but it obviously hadn’t been easy.

“I managed everything except the traitor bit before I met up with you, and after that I had to keep you on the move. The western capital was still dangerous, not to mention we had to shield the Moon Prince from any suspicion of involvement with the kidnapping of the Ri VIP.”

“Yes, I see that.”

It also explained why Chue had disguised herself so thoroughly that even Maomao hadn’t known who she was.

“Then I was busy handing the VIP off to the Ri folks. That was in the next town down the road, while you both waited here in this one. I planned to get us all back to the western capital once any suspicion of kidnapping had been cleared up.”

“But you hadn’t counted on ‘bear-man’ being here.”

“Right! That was my biggest miscalculation! I had a bad feeling, but I had no idea he’d entrenched himself so deeply. Speaking of which, who would ever have expected him to confuse poor Xiaohong for the foreign dignitary and chase after her?!”

In a board game, there was one player whose moves you could never predict: a total amateur. And bear-man was no tactician. No doubt they really hadn’t been able to guess what he would do.

“After that, I had no choice but to rethink my plans. I sure couldn’t keep guarding you! Instead, once I was sure they wouldn’t kill you, I got out of this town.”

“Meaning once Xiaohong and I made contact with ‘laoshi,’ you left?”

“That’s right.”

Maomao wanted to spit a few choice words at her, but somehow she kept them down. Chue had had her own problems to worry about.

“I’d only scouted out the situation and made contact with a few of my coconspirators, so the pirates didn’t know about me. But they did find the wagon before I got back, and once I was sure escape wasn’t an option, I had to take a new tack!”

“So you left me to seek harbor as a ‘fellow believer’?”

“That’s right. The laoshi has never been one to lay a hand on a believer, and he’ll do anything and everything to protect them.”

Anything and everything, huh?

That had led him to leave the nonbelievers to their fate, but as much as Maomao detested that, it had saved her life. She was hardly in a position to criticize.

“Shikyou and his friends hadn’t arrived in town yet. I couldn’t afford a confrontation with Bear-Man, and I couldn’t let them know that the Ri dignitary was nearby. So I avoided this town and went to the next one to let them know, then prioritized safely handing over our VIP. What if I had come back on my own? I wouldn’t have been able to overpower so many people. There were also perfectly good reasons I couldn’t ask the Moon Prince to send help. Although eventually, he found the mole on his own and started working with Shikyou, which made everything easier! Once the dignitary was safely back with his people, I joined Shikyou and some agents from his biaoshi agency and headed here.”

“Is that why you sent the message through your collaborator? The hint that you would be here soon?”

“Yes, that’s right. It didn’t really matter whether you noticed and understood it or not, but I knew you would, Miss Maomao! And I’ve got to say, my life was a lot easier than it could have been thanks to you poisoning all the bandits. In fact, I’m awfully curious how you managed to do it. Care to share your secrets?”

Maomao wasn’t thrilled to have Chue praising her. Poisoning folks wasn’t really something an apothecary should be doing.

“It helped that most of the marauders don’t have very discriminating palates.”

Eating the tainted potatoes would cause tingling. Notwithstanding the spices she’d used to cover the sensation, she’d expected a few people to notice. Some of the bandits had had milder symptoms than others, and she suspected it was those who’d noticed how the potatoes tasted and refrained from eating too many of them.

“In addition to the potato peels and buds, I took the liberty of making use of the snake venom and some nutmeg. I mixed a bit of extra alcohol into the horse-milk drink, to get them drunk a bit easier, and for a secret ingredient I mixed in a few of those mushrooms that make you viciously drunk.”

Neither Chue nor Shikyou said anything.

“What’s with the looks?”

“Miss Maomao, you really pulled out all the stops on your poisoning attempt.”

“Well, it was my life on the line.”

If it was kill or be killed, even Maomao would choose the former.

“I’m impressed you were able to get so many poisons in one place,” Shikyou commented.

“There’s poison everywhere, sir. It’s only a matter of knowing how to use it.”

They were getting off topic. She decided to bring them back to the main subject. “Would you answer me two questions?”

“If we can, sure!”

“You said you handed over the dignitary. What form did that take, exactly?”

Chue smirked at that. “Don’t worry your pretty head. The dignitary isn’t anyone you need to be concerned about, Miss Maomao.”

That sounded a bit evasive, but at least the “dignitary” seemed to be safe. He might have been a selfish kid with a rotten tooth, but it would have left a bad taste in Maomao’s mouth if he’d met some foul end.

“What’s your second question?” Chue asked.

After a moment, Maomao said, “It’s about who attacked Master Shikyou.”

“Oh, Miss Maomao, I think you already know.”

Stupid Chue, being so perceptive. It was Maomao’s way not to speak of a thing even when she already knew it.

Besides, she had questions. Why had Xiaohong come to fetch her? How had she known about the secret passageway? She’d quietly asked Xiaohong how she had known that Shikyou was there. And the answer? “My uncle told me.”

Hulan. Gyoku-ou’s ever-humble third son. The only substantially younger child among the four siblings.

Finally, Maomao saw that they wouldn’t get anywhere if she didn’t come out and say it. “What did Master Hulan want out of this?”

“Good question! And the answer is surprisingly simple. It was a straightforward succession dispute,” Chue said. She made it sound almost banal, yet Shikyou looked conflicted. Chue went on, “Still, Miss Chue had other reasons for coming here.” She turned to Shikyou. “Why are you leaving those bandits alive?” She drawled just like she always did, but her words were uncommonly forceful.

“I’m not a civil official,” Shikyou snapped. “It’s not my place to hang them or lop off their heads.”

“Youuu’re gonna regret it! We’re here today because you let one of them off with just a gouged-out eye. Let’s pop those heads off their shoulders, whaddaya say? We can make it look like...well, anything we want, right now.” She made a slashing motion with her hand. A clowning touch on a cruel pronouncement.

“I broke their arms so they can’t try anything. We’ll hand them over to the authorities; that’s enough.”

“If you say so...” Chue cocked her head and turned away. “Not much I can do if you insist. Just make sure you’re ready for the consequences. There’s nothing more frightening than a wounded beast.”

“Believe me, I know.”

“Do you? A soft touch like you is never going to become successor.”

“Believe me... I know,” Shikyou said.

Chue didn’t respond, but stood and left the room.