“I thought they might be plotting to assassinate the Moon Prince, but that wasn’t how they behaved. They had some other objective.”

They’d clearly gone out of their way to arrive while Jinshi was there. Why?

“A desperate bid for political asylum, perhaps. Maybe they thought that with the Moon Prince near at hand, their pursuers from their own nation would find it hard to cross the border. I keep asking myself whether their methods were ingenious or insane, and I come up with a different answer every time.”

I can see how that would be a lot of trouble , Maomao thought. Meanwhile, the man before her had been keeping his head down and running...

“The swarm held us up something terrible,” Shikyou said. “It generated a lot of anti-foreign sentiment, but fortunately we were able to find safe haven in the post town, thanks to my uncle Dahai. I admit, though, I started to sweat when our dear guest fell ill and suddenly needed a doctor.”

That rang a very, very loud bell.

“This VIP. Were they a child, by any chance?”

Maomao put her head in her hands.
 I knew it.

“I couldn’t cool my heels in the port town forever, but my father’s death complicated matters.”

“What changed with Master Gyoku-ou’s passing?”

“If you had the choice between someone who would lend a sympathetic ear to a foreigner’s plight and someone who wouldn’t, who would you rather talk to? These foreigners... I think maybe it’s time I put a name to them. This child was a very important member of the kingdom of the Ri people. They sent someone to come get him, on account of things having largely quieted down in their lands.”

The kingdom of the Ri people...

Maomao had a vague sense that the country was part of Hokuaren, but she didn’t know anything beyond that.

“They wanted me to speak with the Moon Prince on their behalf. Which I was just on my way to do when...” Shikyou patted his side, right about where the poisoned dart had hit him. “They got me as soon as I entered the estate. I reflexively took out the guards by the gate. Unfortunately, that was a mistake. Since I didn’t know where the assassin was hiding, though, I made for the passageway so I could lie low for a moment and pull out the dart.”

“That was when Gyokujun and Xiaohong came along. Xiaohong went in search of a doctor and found me, and then I treated you,” Maomao said. The dots were starting to connect. “So do you know who told the kids about the passageway?”

Shikyou was silent. He didn’t want to acknowledge that it had been his own younger brother Hulan.

“Fine. Next question. Was there really a point to making me flee with you?”

“Well, I was suddenly a criminal, a kidnapper of a foreign dignitary. Once you treated me, people were going to think you were involved, whether you liked it or not. One basic rule in diplomatic relations is: never let the other guy see something that might be disadvantageous to your own country.” Black sheep though he might be, Shikyou had learned an eldest son’s lessons well enough to understand that. “Since I was attacked with a blowdart from somewhere within the estate, it seemed more than likely that there was someone on the inside. That’s what Chue said. So, yes. I’m sure you’re right. Hulan was behind this.”

“You think so, sir?”

So it had been Chue’s decision to get Maomao out of there. Maomao, who had already made contact with this foreign dignitary—she might not have known it at the time, but no one would believe her if she said so. Most of all, the moment Chue realized they had been betrayed from within, she would know that the turncoat might eventually catch Maomao.

“If I could meet with the foreign dignitary and safely turn him over to the Ri kingdom, we could let you go. But of course, first we had to make sure we weren’t handing him over to a political enemy. Meanwhile, we needed to keep you and my niece out of sight—and shake off our pursuers. Not to mention, I was desperate to get word to the Moon Prince. That was probably the biggest problem of all.”

In other words, what he wants to say is that he’s been a busy man.

“Naturally, not everything could go right. Our VIP scented danger and ditched the post town. Instead, he headed for another meeting spot, a place we’d arranged in advance in case anything happened. That’s why we had to keep you hanging for a while.”

“And one of the people on the trail of this dignitary of yours was One-Eyed Dragon,” Maomao said.

“That name’s wasted on him. Call him bear-man; that’s enough for his like. You know about his grudge against me. I’m sure he was thrilled to take on this job. I use this town all the time when I’m preparing for a job. He probably thought he could ambush me here.” Shikyou paused. “It’s a terrible thing I’ve done.”

He was understandably upset, knowing that the bandits had chosen to take over this town because of him. No small number of people had died because of the bear-man.

“But you’re here now. That means you were able to safely hand over the VIP, doesn’t it?” Maomao asked.

“Yeah. Reinforcements from the Moon Prince arrived a couple of days ago and helped wrap everything up nice and neat. I wanted to come for you sooner, but I was afraid of what the bear-man might do if he thought I was sniffing around. I never meant to use you and Xiaohong as bait. I know, I know. That sounds like an excuse, and I’m sorry. But it never crossed my mind that they might confuse Xiaohong for my foreign dignitary.”

“I know that. Normally, I don’t think they would have.”

One-Eyed Dragon—ahem, the bear-man—had only mistaken Xiaohong for the foreign prince because he couldn’t read. The portrait on the poster wasn’t colored; the finer points of the visitor’s identification were given only in a written list. The hair color, maybe that was an understandable mistake, but getting the eye color wrong? Only someone who hadn’t read the list could have done that.

It’s not that he 
didn’t
 read it, but that he 
couldn’t
.

And if most of the outlaws were illiterate, that meant certain things could be slipped past them. Maomao looked at the sleeve of her robe. She’d changed from the woolen work outfit into the robe that had been laundered. The sleeve was embellished with embroidery of a sparrow, delicate work that went well beyond “patching the tears.” The outfit hadn’t had any tears.

Such delicate stitching could never have been achieved with a few minutes’ work, so Maomao thought maybe the sparrow had been there all along, and the woman had added the string of words.

“You got it.”