“Certainly, in your way.”

He had started to become accustomed to this unusual woman, just the slightest bit.

“May I douse the light? Don’t worry, I know what I’m doing.”

Perhaps those words left something to be desired as a sweet nothing on their first night together. The bit about the light, sure—but the rest? Wasn’t that the kind of thing the man usually said?

Then again, Baryou, with his near-pathological mistrust of other people, had never and would never have practiced elsewhere so as to ensure he’d make no mistakes on his first night. Even worse, he had to let his partner do absolutely everything, a most dishonorable situation for a man.

“It doesn’t tickle, does it?”

“Of course it does,” he grumbled.

His wife gave a giggle that sounded much like the twittering of the sparrow she was named for—Baryou could never say no to that.

“You have such nice, smooth skin. I’m downright jealous!” Chue drawled, but somehow she sounded more sultry than usual.

Baryou did the only thing he could do: he closed his eyes.

Even after the child was born, Chue was still Chue.

“It really is just like a monkey, isn’t it? Everyone says it takes after you, Baryou, but I’m not sure how they can tell. Hoo boy, did giving birth tire me out, though! It was probably the third most painful thing that’s ever happened to me. You can handle the next one, Baryou.”

“I keep telling you, that’s not how it works...”

Baryou had eventually reached a point where he could talk to her without the screen between them, and now he accepted the snotty, red-faced infant from Chue.

“Don’t be shy of your own baby, okay?” she said.

“Now, that’s just rude.”

In point of fact, he found it difficult to hold the child, which flopped around as if it had no bones. Baryou grew uneasy and was about to give it back to Chue, but she rebuffed him.

“I don’t want it anymore. What if I held it for too long and it remembered my face or something?”

“Are those the words of a mother? Anyway, it hasn’t even opened its eyes yet.”

“Miss Chue is not going to raise it. That was the deal, wasn’t it?”

After not very long at all, Chue said she had some work to do and left the house.

By that point, Baryou was already convinced that she was indeed a member of the Mi clan. Often, he recalled, members of the clan didn’t even know of each other’s existence. They simply followed and obeyed their respective Imperial family members, and that was what gave them their hierarchy. To gain greater rank was an honor within the clan, one that also applied to successors.

Chue, too, would one day choose someone to follow in her footsteps. Baryou decided to assume, or at least pretend, that distancing herself from her child was, in its own way, an expression of a mother’s love.

Chue was always a lively presence, never quiet except perhaps for when she ate and when she slept. Then again, was she really sleeping when she was sleeping?

That was the Chue he remembered. Now here she was, covered from head to toe in bandages and lying in bed.

He’d been told that on her way back to the western capital, Chue had been in a battle with a bandit, and that was when she had received these injuries. Normally, the best thing might have been to let her lie quietly and not move her, but her work didn’t allow that. After the surgery was over, they’d loaded his battered wife into the wagon and carted her home.

Council had been in session when Chue got back to the main house, so Baryou didn’t hear about her until afterward. Just moments ago, in fact.

There was a young woman sitting by the bedside, an apothecary. It was Maomao.

“Oh!” they both said.

Baryou wasn’t sure how to follow that up. He’d hardly ever met Maomao face-to-face. Usually there was at least a screen or curtain between them.

It was Maomao who broke the silence. “Chue is very badly hurt. Please, don’t overstress her if you can avoid it.”

Maomao hardly looked like she was in a much better state: her own face was covered with scratches. She must have fought as hard as she could to treat Chue. Baryou could only bow his head.

He understood Chue had let this happen to herself on account of her work. He didn’t know what that work was. All he knew was that there was nothing he could do.

Almost absently, he brushed her undamaged hand, the left one. The fingers were cold.

“Mmr...” Chue mumbled. Baryou almost jumped.

His wife’s eyes drifted open. They looked puffy, maybe from sleeping for so long.

“Well... It’s my husband,” she drawled. “You look ready to keel over and die.”

“I daresay that’s my line.”

“Hoo hoo hoo. I made a little boo-boo. Shouldn’t have been so soft...”

Baryou felt better just hearing her voice. At the same time, he couldn’t help noticing how thin and frail she sounded.

“Yes, what?”

“You know, I... I won’t be able to move as well as I could before. What do we do?”

I.
 She’d said 
I
, not 
Miss Chue
.

“You think maybe I’m all washed up? No more use? Maybe you should go ahead and divorce me?”

The sudden mention of divorce brought Baryou up short. “You’re asking me what to do?”

“That right hand isn’t going to be any use to anyone,” Chue said, drawling again.

Yes, it would certainly make some daily tasks harder. But then again...

“Aren’t you ambidextrous, Chue?”

Baryou knew: he’d seen her wield chopsticks perfectly well in both hands. Plus there were all those flags and flowers and doves, which she produced as capably with the left hand as the right.

“You were always ten times as agile as I am,” he said. “With just one hand, you’ll still be five times as quick.”

In the time it took Baryou to roll one bean bun, Chue could make ten.

“My! Hoo hoo hoo. You’ve scored a point on Miss Chue. Three times is probably the limit, if you ask me—hoo hoo hoo!”

“Don’t laugh. You’ll aggravate your stomach injuries,” Baryou said, slightly frantic.

“Fwoo hee hee! How very rude.”

“I see your injuries haven’t stopped you from chattering as much as ever. Or did you take a blow to the head that knocked all the foreign languages out of it?”

“Nope. I still remember them, I think.” Oddly enough, Chue seemed to be enjoying this.

“Then there’s nothing to worry about, is there?”

“That’s a fair point. All right, then, perhaps the very helpful Miss Chue could make one request of you?”

“What is it?”

“You see, Miss Chue is 
very
 hungry...”

At that moment, her stomach gurgled mightily.

“Listen, you...”

When, he wondered, had they started to share such familiar conversation?

It would certainly be a great deal of trouble to fill the gulf between himself and a new wife one little bit at a time.

He’d done it once, and that was enough for him.