“But that’s all the woman was.” So Vice Minister Lu had told Chue in that mansion in the western capital so long ago. “Just a trophy, fit to be fussed over. Eyes she might have been, but she was never given any great task, and her rank within the clan is low.”

So she had rushed to achieve results. She’d gone to Shaoh, claiming it was for business—but those of compromised competence were...well. She’d screwed up, but just when it seemed her identity was about to be revealed there in Shaoh, she was in a very convenient shipwreck. She decided to infiltrate yet another country until things had cooled down a bit.

Deep down, Chue’s mother was something like what one might call a con artist. She did truly love Chue’s father as his wife, but when the job was over, she cut them loose. Chue and her father both.

The information about Chue’s father’s business contacts, she’d presumably taken as a bargaining chip to get back into Li. It was Vice Minister Lu’s own mentor who had aided her in her escape.

When Chue’s mother got back to the western capital, she pretended to have no memory of Chue or her father. She reunited with her husband and three children, and even gave birth to another child.

Gyoku-ou’s subsequent destruction of the Yi clan, however, probably owed something to her mother’s lack of ability. She wasn’t able to do what the Mi clan should have done, squeezing like a snake from the inside until he couldn’t move.

As a Mi clan member, she was simply too compromised. Chue’s mother knew that perfectly well. Instead, she endeavored to choose a distinguished successor.

It was too late for her three children, who had been poisoned by Gyoku-ou while she was away. That was why she decided to make that last child: Hulan, Gyoku-ou’s third son. She would raise him as befitted someone whose name meant “tiger and wolf,” and use him to remake the western capital according to her own designs.

The simplest way to do that seemed to be to expel Gyoku-ou’s recalcitrant eldest son and make Hulan the assistant to the much more pliable second boy. It was almost impossible to predict what might happen to the family if the eldest son ascended to the headship—but the second eldest? With him, they might be able to hope for some stability.

There was another possibility: maybe someone else, someone not of the Gyoku family, could be put in place in the western capital. The thought occurred to her. But then the eldest son learned Hulan’s secret. Learned what he was planning.

“That Master Shikyou sure is an interesting guy, huh? Who would have expected him to 
volunteer
 to be part of the Mi clan?”

Anyone could see he was hardly suited for covert operations. Maybe he’d given them the name Shikyou to demonstrate his commitment to joining the clan, but Chue found it almost comically misguided. If changing your name was enough to change your station in life, they could have made all the disposable Mi clan folk they needed.

Now that even Shikyou knew she was a member of the Mi clan, the esteem in which Chue’s less-than-competent mother was held was not likely to rise.

“No, I suppose not.” Chue smiled. Her mother had decided that Chue had no value—what would she think if that valueless thing stood forever above her?

Personally, Chue didn’t really care anymore—but her father had died without knowing the truth. For his sake, surely she could be permitted this much. Chue must make certain that she was forever valued better than her mother, so that the woman would never forget her—or her father.

It was for that modicum of vengeance that Chue had sworn fealty to the nation called Li.

“Mentor, will there be any change in Miss Chue’s work?”

“I doubt it.”

“That’s good to know.”

“It’s not very easy work to grasp. Do you understand what it means?” Her mentor’s expression was clouded.

“Yes, sir. The first and foremost mission I’ve been given is to make the Moon Prince happy.”

“I don’t understand what that means.”

Neither did Chue. Finding someone, she knew how to do. Eliminating them—easy enough. But this?

Nonetheless, she believed she had made the right choice protecting Maomao, even at the cost of her hand.

“Sigh! I do hope Miss Maomao will heed Miss Chue’s advice!”

Her mentor gave her a strange look at that, but she pretended not to notice.