At exactly that moment, the door burst open. Maomao turned back in surprise to find Jinshi standing there.

He looked haggard. Maybe he was pulling yet another all-nighter—overestimating how much his body could take, again. How many days had it been since he’d slept? The sight of him might have inspired pity in some people, but to Maomao he just looked like a man who had overworked himself. His eyes were puffy, his skin dry. His hair lacked luster and his lips were chapped.

“How many all-nighters have you pulled?” Maomao said.

“I could ask you the very same question!”

There seemed to be something Jinshi wished he could say, for he reached out. He caught Maomao’s hand and drew her into the office. He pulled so hard that she thought she might tumble right onto the floor, but he caught her first.

They lay on the floor, Maomao on top, Jinshi underneath. There was a nice, thick carpet to land on, but even so, Maomao wondered if it didn’t hurt falling down like that.

After a moment, Jinshi said, “Don’t go running off like that again.”

“Try to 
think
 before you act!”

“I did think. And look what happened.”

She felt a warm breath on her head and knew he was sighing.

She couldn’t move. She tried to look up at Jinshi, but found his chin was in the way.

“I brought you here because I thought it would be safe. How could everything have gone so wrong?”

“Because things don’t always go the way we plan. If I’d stayed in the capital, the same sort of thing might have happened.”

Why were they lying there on the floor, trading what amounted to banter?

We should at least close the door.
 What if somebody saw them? 
I’ve got to get up.

How long did he plan to lie there holding her? To be perfectly blunt, she hadn’t bathed in days. She’d hardly even changed her clothes. It must have smelled gross, lying there with a woman covered in sweat and dust.

What the hell? He’s actually taking a whiff!

“Master Jinshi?”

“Maybe you could let me go one of these days?”

“You could always push me away yourself.”

Maomao took Jinshi’s hand. It felt very heavy, but he wasn’t specifically pushing on her. It was just...

I’m sleepy.

Maomao could hardly think straight. Maybe it was the release of all that tension, but she felt oddly safe. Was it the thick carpet that felt so nice? Or was it the warmth of another body right next to her?

“True enough...”

She tried to brush his hand away, but couldn’t. Instead, her breathing gradually evened out, and slowly, so did his.

What do I do here?

Her eyelids were trying to close, but she felt like there was something she had to tell him.

“I know you have your circumstances, Miss Maomao. It’s important not to get carried away by your emotions!”

I’m not getting carried away by my emotions
, she thought.

She looked at the face of the beautiful man before her. With his almond-shaped eyes closed, the lashes that fringed them looked even longer than usual. His facial features were perfectly formed, his lips neither too full nor too thin. There was the scar running along his right cheek.

For someone with such a pretty face, he was surprisingly well-built. That accursed brand was still on his flank.

Maomao couldn’t comprehend it. To get what he wanted, Jinshi had tried to remove himself from a position at the very zenith of power. If his goal was indeed Maomao herself, then she could only think there was something wrong with him.

It was a heat like molten metal. She wasn’t sure what to do with it all—for the temperature she could return was no more than that of lukewarm water.

Slowly she reached up toward Jinshi’s cheek and pressed her tepid warmth against it. It felt a little cooler than her hand. His eyes were completely closed, and he nuzzled against her hand like a kitten being petted. He was asleep—perhaps he had finally relaxed.

There’s nothing I can give him back in return.

Maomao brought her face close to Jinshi’s. His breath and hers mingled. His lips were even colder than his cheek.

A short while later, Maomao’s breathing, too, took on the even rhythm of sleep, and she slept soundly for the first time in more days than she could remember.