“And so you think Brother Feilong and I should govern the land together? I’m sorry, but that’s preposterous. Do you believe, Brother, that all will go well for you simply because you decline to accept any inheritance and any duty?”

“Won’t it? Feilong is a cool head. Smarter than me. He’ll do right by this place. You can be his assistant. You might not be a perfect replacement for the old man right away, but in a few years, you’ll have this place ticking along.”

“A few years? When the next few years are going to be some of our hardest?” Finally, Hulan sounded upset—the humble, retiring youth had vanished. “I agree with you—our brother Feilong is indeed a calm and collected person. If life had allowed him to go to the royal capital as a bureaucrat, I think he would’ve risen far higher in the world than you, Brother Shikyou. But make him the head, make him the face, of the western capital? What happens then?” He seemed to be asking not just Shikyou, but Jinshi. “We have the aftermath of the insect swarm to deal with, the worsening of public order, food shortages—and in the immediate future we will have to consider the possibility of an invasion by another country. Do you think Brother Feilong has the strength to successfully navigate all that?”

“Grandfather is old, and I sincerely doubt he’ll be returning from the royal capital. As for our aunts and uncles, how far can we really rely on them? The entire reason Grandfather left our father in charge here was because, whatever you may think of his ideals, he possessed the necessary strength to hold it all together.”

Jinshi couldn’t disagree with that. If Gyoku-ou had possessed one thing, in spite of his personal beliefs, it was strength. His ability to work a crowd, almost the way a con artist would, was something Jinshi could learn from himself.

“True, things might be well while Grandfather remains in this world. And if things were still as they were before the swarm, the others might keep their peace. With Father gone, however, our aunts and uncles will not be shy in criticizing the main house. And Brother Feilong and I, neither of us the eldest son, will lack the influence to subdue our relatives, who have grown strong running their respective trades in this province. That’s why Brother Feilong waited and waited for you to return, Brother Shikyou. Because you were able to go fist to fist with Uncle Yohda and silence even him. You have the strength.”

“Yohda” was a nickname meaning “youngest child.” The youngest of Gyokuen’s children was in fact Empress Gyokuyou, but the youngest among the menfolk would be the seventh son, the one who looked after livestock. The one who had supposedly been so incensed with Shikyou that they’d fought a duel with live steel.

Chue piped up, “It’s not a contradiction at all!” In her hand was a slice of soft fried bread. “As long as Mister Shikyou is alive, there will be somebody who backs him for leader. Which is a big ol’ problem if you’re trying to lead without him.”

“Precisely,” Hulan confirmed.

“What good would having Shikyou out of the picture do you? Didn’t you just say that you and Feilong both lack the power to lead?” Jinshi asked.

At that, Chue and Hulan both grinned, the expressions oddly similar to each other.

“Indeed he did,” Chue chirped. “But Mister Hulan—he found something, for better or worse. Someone he wanted in the western capital more than his unmotivated big brother.”

“Correct again,” Hulan said, and stared directly at Jinshi. Jinshi got a bad feeling.

“Among Master Gyoku-ou’s three sons, Mister Shikyou is certainly the most suited to leadership. But as far as Mister Hulan was concerned, if there were someone else available, there’d be no need to fret about the new Yous. His goal, you see, was to help the western capital flourish. If there were someone with practical power, someone who would make sense as the political leader of the west...” Chue, too, looked at Jinshi.

“I’m sure it would have worked, if I could have gotten rid of my brother Shikyou. In your service, Moon Prince, I don’t doubt that myself and my brother Feilong would have been excellent aides.”

With that, Hulan got out of his chair, knelt on the ground, and bowed his head. “I realize I ask the impossible. Yet ask I must. Moon Prince, will you not stay in this city and guide the people of I-sei Province? I offer anything that might be of use on this path, even my own head.” He pounded his forehead repeatedly against the floor, and his eyes were shining, shining so brightly it was almost disturbing. The burns all over his body attested to the truth of what he said.

Without quite meaning to, Jinshi backed up a step. He looked at Gaoshun and Taomei, who stood in attendance behind him.

After a pause, Gaoshun said quietly, “I have heard that the Mi clan teaches its members that the highest joy is to obey the orders of their master.”

“The highest joy...” Jinshi repeated uncertainly.

“Only say that you will remain here in the western capital, Moon Prince, and I will gladly tear off my head with my own hands!” Hulan said.

“I don’t want you tearing anything off,” Jinshi replied.

Who would clean it up afterward?

“Enough! Stop! You don’t need to do this.” Shikyou knelt beside Hulan, then imitated his brother in pressing his head to the ground. “You have heard the boy. All that he did, he did out of love for I-sei Province. Please, do not imagine that there is any need to cut off his head.”

Well, Jinshi wasn’t the one who had talked about cutting off anybody’s head, was he? Hulan had offered to do that on his own.

“Brother Shikyou. I am of no special regard. If my life is what it takes to bring good upon the western capital, what of it?” There was no hesitation in Hulan’s eyes—in fact, he seemed mystified that Shikyou would attempt to intercede for him.

Chue simply sat and watched them, but her eyes squinted in amusement. “It doesn’t matter what you say, you won’t get through to him,” she drawled. “He’s been raised for this since the day he was born. The two of you just think differently. You can tell a cat not to catch rats, but will it stop?”

“Cats and rats? Don’t be absurd! Why would a person throw down his life for something so trivial?” Shikyou demanded, glaring at Chue. She, however, just sipped her goat’s milk, unfazed.

“Something so trivial? If you can say that with a straight face, then you really won’t ever be successor. I know your heart goes out to your little brother, but trying to take his role away from him, that’s just selfish. I must say, Mister Shikyou, you really don’t have the chops to cut it as successor. You can throw away the Gyoku name, take on a nasty-sounding moniker, and make a lot of underworld connections if you like, but it doesn’t suit you at all. You’re in the way just by being around, so maybe you could go full puppet on the public stage. You want to protect your little brother, that’s the way.”

Once she had let all this out, Chue took another sip of milk.

Shikyou knelt there, dazed, whereas Hulan continued to look at Jinshi with his eyes sparkling.

Chue wasn’t done, however. “And you, Mister Hulan, give it up already. I know you have your duty, but if it butts up against Miss Chue’s duty, you can rest assured she’ll use every means at her disposal to crush you like a little insect. Seeing as your existence is nothing but a hindrance to the Moon Prince.”

“An interesting remark coming from you, Lady Chue. What can 
you
 do for the Moon Prince with those injuries? They’ll never heal completely. Your rank will plummet.”

“I’ll still be higher than you, Mister Hulan. Miss Chue is quite nimble enough to do most anything she needs with her left hand. But being the kind lady she is, Miss Chue has an idea for a compromise. One that might even placate a youth like yourself. The Moon Prince might not lead the western capital, but what if there was a ‘face’ that could serve instead?” Chue turned to Jinshi and grinned again. “Mister Shikyou does have talent, you know. What his dear, departed father Master Gyoku-ou was so desperate to possess, Mister Shikyou has in spades. Let him be not a bird’s beak, but a dragon’s head.”

Her grin grew even wider, and she looked at Shikyou.

“You’ll stand for the western capital, won’t you? You’ll make a brilliant puppet, I’m sure of it.”

Jinshi stole a glance at Taomei. Perhaps she knew of her daughter-in-law’s business, for she said nothing. She seemed inordinately interested in the scraps of food left over on the table—and dedicated to not learning too much about the thinking of the Mi clan.

If he had known it would turn out this way, Jinshi reflected, he would have charged up even more back in his room.