Maomao was sick of looking at either of them, so she turned her mind to considering where else she could be at that moment—whereupon she spotted a lookout’s platform high up one of the masts.

“I was just curious.”

“Curious? Do all you central types like high places?” He gave her a dubious look, but what did she care? If he’d pressed the point, she might have thought better of the idea, but the sailor brought her a rope. “Here, a lifeline. It is dangerous, so make sure you tie it tight around yourself.”

“Oh, thank you very much.” She was actually surprised how readily the man went along with her request. She tied the rope around her waist and then started working her way upward until she arrived at the lookout, which was about halfway up the mast. She was about to climb onto the platform when she realized someone had beaten her to it.

“What are you doing here, Maomao?” he asked.

“I could ask you the very same question, Master Jinshi.”

There was Jinshi, sitting on the lookout’s platform.

“Me? I just... You know. I was trying to get away from someone rather troublesome.”

“Master Basen? No, that wouldn’t make sense... Is it Master Hulan?”

Jinshi’s expression darkened: bingo.

“And what brings 
you
 up here?” he asked.

“It’s just such a lovely day that I wanted to be outside, but I’ve been trying to find somewhere the freak strategist isn’t vomiting.”

In other words, they were both there for roughly the same reason.

“Anyway, have a seat.”

“It’s a bit cramped.”

Maomao sat down, effectively shoulder to shoulder with Jinshi. What else could she do? It was cramped. Maybe they’d only let her up here because someone else had done it first.

“We’re finally going home,” Jinshi mused.

“It’s been a most circuitous route,” Maomao said.

“Don’t say that. Not when I’m finally in a decent mood.”

Jinshi looked at the sky: blue with puffy white clouds. The picture of peace, as if nothing bad could possibly happen.

“Things are going to be busy when we get back to the capital,” Maomao said.

“That’s for certain. I’m sure work has been piling up there, and supporting a distant land like I-sei Province from the royal capital isn’t going to be easy.” Nonetheless, Jinshi’s expression conveyed that it would have to be done.

The profile of his face was nearly perfect, marked only by a single stroke, a single scar. It would probably never fade, but then again, Maomao recalled, Jinshi seemed oddly fond of it.

It makes me think of everything that happened with the Shi clan.

It must have reminded Jinshi, too, each time he looked in a mirror or touched his cheek.

Maomao knew very well that this man, Jinshi, felt his responsibilities keenly. He didn’t need her to remind him that there would be lots of work to do when they got home. What had moved her to say something so insensitive?

She couldn’t think of much else to talk about, however, so she ventured, “What do you most want to do when we get back to the capital, Master Jinshi?”

“What do I want to do?” Jinshi pondered. He pondered so hard that he began to frown, and tilt his head, and 
hrmmm
.

I really don’t think he needs to think about it that hard.
 Maomao hadn’t meant that much by the question.

“Do you really need to think about it that hard, sir?”

Maomao could think of all kinds of things she wanted to do when they got back: pick medicinal herbs, compound some medicines, experiment with the effects of some new drugs. All kinds of things.

“Ah, it’s just... I’m sure there’s a panoply of things I 
don’t
 want to do waiting for me, and all I can seem to think of is how I’m going to deal with them.”

“Ahhh... You know, I do remember them saying something about there being a new potential consort.”

Who was she again? Gyoku-ou’s adopted daughter? Maomao couldn’t help feeling a bit bad for the girl now that Gyoku-ou, who had sent her to the rear palace, was dead.

“Empress Gyokuyou has been dealing with that matter on my behalf. Bringing her around, I don’t doubt.”

“Bringing her around, sir?”

“Didn’t you know? Empress Gyokuyou is famous—or perhaps I should say infamous—for her way with people. During her time in the rear palace, she practically redrew the power map among the Emperor’s women.”

Maomao thought back to her time inside the rear-palace walls. Now that Jinshi mentioned it, she did recall Gyokuyou frequently having tea with middle and lower consorts, drawing them into her faction.

“I don’t believe the Empress’s position is going to change,” Jinshi said.

Maomao had sent some letters while she was in the western capital, but she had naturally hesitated to send anything to such an august personage as the Empress herself. She had no idea what Gyokuyou’s present situation was.

“I’m told that both the young prince and the princess are doing very well,” Jinshi said.

“That’s good to hear.”

Maomao was closer to the princess than she was to the young heir apparent. The inquisitive little girl must be getting big by now.

“Would you like to pay them a visit when we get back?”

“Could I? Empress Gyokuyou has attempted to, ahem, ‘scout’ me several times already.”

“You know what? Forget I said anything,” Jinshi replied immediately. Then he said, “What 
do
 I want to do? You know, there is one thing...”

“What’s that, sir?”

Jinshi’s hand brushed Maomao’s, settling against it, emphasizing how much bigger his hand was than hers.

“Is this what you wanted to do?” Maomao asked.

“There are other things too.”

“Oh, is that so?”

“But I can’t.” His eyes drifted down to the spewing figure on the deck. “I’m restraining myself as hard as I can. It’s not easy.”

Maomao was by now well acquainted with Jinshi’s feelings—and she knew that he no longer had to pretend to be a eunuch. It made it slightly awkward to be perched up here so close to him. But at the same time...it wasn’t that unpleasant.

“I know you have your circumstances, Miss Maomao. It’s important not to get carried away by your emotions! But you can’t let that be an excuse either.”

Why was it that she seemed to think of Chue’s words whenever she was with Jinshi?

What she felt for Jinshi was not, she suspected, a burning passion. She couldn’t respond to him with the same feelings he brought to her, but at the same time, there weren’t that many people in the world with whom she could feel this safe.

She was starting to figure out what her own feelings were and had begun to believe that she ought to accept them. It might have been nice if it hadn’t been the clowning lady-in-waiting who’d given her that final push, but what were you going to do?

What 
am
 I going to do?

Maomao’s hand still sat against Jinshi’s. Nothing more had happened, which was fine by her, but now she wasn’t sure when to pull her hand away.

“Maomao,” Jinshi said.

“Yes, sir?”

At the same time she turned to look up into Jinshi’s face, she found Jinshi’s face coming down toward hers.

The touch of his lips was so light, so casual, that for a second she didn’t know what had happened.

At first, he didn’t say anything.

“What? Are you embarrassed?” she exclaimed, when she realized he’d flushed red at even this most chaste of kisses.

“No, ahem, I just... I’ve restrained myself, and I meant to continue restraining myself...”

Before she could stop herself, Maomao exclaimed, “Restraint! You didn’t restrain yourself so much before!”

“I didn’t...” Jinshi appeared to remember something, and turned grim. Presumably he was thinking of “before,” when he had forced a kiss on her, and she’d turned the tables and given him a taste of his own medicine.

“Don’t worry, sir. I won’t get you back for it this time.”

“Er... That’s not what I...”

“You’d rather I did?”

Jinshi pursed his lips and looked at Maomao. “I rather thought you despised me.”

This time it was her turn not to say anything. Instead, she glanced away from him.

I 
think
 I don’t despise him...do I?

If not, then of course she wouldn’t try to get him back. But even so, she couldn’t accept Chue’s words so wholeheartedly as to actually say it at this moment.

“Well?”

“Well what, sir?”

“You know perfectly well!”

“Please don’t shout. What if the freak strategist were to notice us? Do you want him to climb up here, retching as he goes?”

“Urk. No, I... I don’t.”

Jinshi went silent. Maomao, too, quietly looked down toward the deck. But she didn’t take her hand away.

There are a lot of people going back with us who weren’t here when we came out , she thought. For one thing, the freak strategist hadn’t been on their ship, but they also had several of the farming buddies Lahan’s Brother had recruited. Maomao sincerely felt for them; they’d been done a bad turn.

It was only then that she realized something.

“You know, I don’t see Lahan’s Brother anywhere,” she said.

“Lahan’s Brother? He should be here. All the people involved with farming were supposed to be on this ship,” said Jinshi.

Then Maomao thought back. Had she told Lahan’s Brother that they were returning to the central region?

No... I got distracted watching Xiaohong stand up for herself and it pushed the subject completely out of my mind.

It still didn’t make sense. Even if Maomao had forgotten to tell him, surely 
someone
 would have.

“Wait... Didn’t he say a few days ago that he was going to go check on the fields in the villages?” Maomao asked.

“He must have come back. We checked off everyone on the ship’s list of passengers.”

“That’s true; good point. I’m sure we didn’t leave him behind. But maybe we should check the list again, just to be completely certain.”

“Good idea. By the way, what 
is
 Lahan’s Brother’s name?”

There was a long pause. Maomao felt her hand start to sweat, and her only consolation was that Jinshi’s did too.

Jinshi and Maomao looked at the land, now far in the distance. The ship would not be going back to port now.

They heard gulls crying overhead. Maomao thought she saw, faintly, the image of Lahan’s Brother hovering in the air.

Some time later, they finally learned Lahan’s Brother’s name, at the same time as they learned he wasn’t on the ship with them. As for Lahan’s Brother, back in the western lands, he still hadn’t noticed that he had been left behind.