      Poe’s first genuine victory was won in 1833, when he was the successful
      competitor for a prize of $100 offered by a Baltimore periodical for the
      best prose story. “A MSS. Found in a Bottle” was the winning tale. Poe had
      submitted six stories in a volume. “Our only difficulty,” says Mr.
      Latrobe, one of the judges, “was in selecting from the rich contents of
      the volume.”
     

      During the fifteen years of his literary life Poe was connected with
      various newspapers and magazines in Richmond, Philadelphia and New York.
      He was faithful, punctual, industrious, thorough. N. P. Willis, who for
      some time employed Poe as critic and sub-editor on the “Evening Mirror,”
       wrote thus:
    

      “With the highest admiration for Poe’s genius, and a willingness to let it
      alone for more than ordinary irregularity, we were led by common report to
      expect a very capricious attention to his duties, and occasionally a scene
      of violence and difficulty. Time went on, however, and he was invariably
      punctual and industrious. We saw but one presentiment of the man—a quiet,
      patient, industrious and most gentlemanly person.
    

      “We heard, from one who knew him well (what should be stated in all
      mention of his lamentable irregularities), that with a single glass of
      wine his whole nature was reversed, the demon became uppermost, and,
      though none of the usual signs of intoxication were visible, his will was
      palpably insane. In this reversed character, we repeat, it was never our
      chance to meet him.”
     

      On September 22, 1835, Poe married his cousin, Virginia Clemm, in
      Baltimore. She had barely turned thirteen years, Poe himself was but
      twenty-six. He then was a resident of Richmond and a regular contributor
      to the “Southern Literary Messenger.” It was not until a year later that
      the bride and her widowed mother followed him thither.
    

      Poe’s devotion to his child-wife was one of the most beautiful features of
      his life. Many of his famous poetic productions were inspired by her
      beauty and charm. Consumption had marked her for its victim, and the
      constant efforts of husband and mother were to secure for her all the
      comfort and happiness their slender means permitted. Virginia died January
      30, 1847, when but twenty-five years of age. A friend of the family
      pictures the death-bed scene—mother and husband trying to impart
      warmth to her by chafing her hands and her feet, while her pet cat was
      suffered to nestle upon her bosom for the sake of added warmth.
    

      These verses from “Annabel Lee,” written by Poe in 1849, the last year of
      his life, tell of his sorrow at the loss of his child-wife:
    

I
 was a child and 
she
 was a child,

    In a kingdom by the sea;

     But we loved with a love that was more than love—

    I and my Annabel Lee;

     With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven

    Coveted her and me.

     And this was the reason that, long ago,

    In this kingdom by the sea.

     A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling

    My beautiful Annabel Lee;

     So that her high-born kinsmen came

    And bore her away from me,

     To shut her up in a sepulchre

    In this kingdom by the sea.

      Poe was connected at various times and in various capacities with the
      “Southern Literary Messenger” in Richmond, Va.; “Graham’s Magazine” and
      the “Gentleman’s Magazine” in Philadelphia; the “Evening Mirror,” the
      “Broadway Journal,” and “Godey’s Lady’s Book” in New York. Everywhere
      Poe’s life was one of unremitting toil. No tales and poems were ever
      produced at a greater cost of brain and spirit.
    

      Poe’s initial salary with the “Southern Literary Messenger,” to which he
      contributed the first drafts of a number of his best-known tales, was $10
      a week! Two years later his salary was but $600 a year. Even in 1844, when
      his literary reputation was established securely, he wrote to a friend
      expressing his pleasure because a magazine to which he was to contribute
      had agreed to pay him $20 monthly for two pages of criticism.
    

      Those were discouraging times in American literature, but Poe never lost
      faith. He was finally to triumph wherever pre-eminent talents win
      admirers. His genius has had no better description than in this stanza
      from William Winter’s poem, read at the dedication exercises of the
      Actors’ Monument to Poe, May 4, 1885, in New York:
    

     He was the voice of beauty and of woe,

     Passion and mystery and the dread unknown;

     Pure as the mountains of perpetual snow,

     Cold as the icy winds that round them moan,

     Dark as the caves wherein earth’s thunders groan,

     Wild as the tempests of the upper sky,

     Sweet as the faint, far-off celestial tone of angel whispers, fluttering from on high,

     And tender as love’s tear when youth and beauty die.

      In the two and a half score years that have elapsed since Poe’s
      death he has come fully into his own. For a while Griswold’s
      malignant misrepresentations colored the public estimate of Poe as man
      and as writer. But, thanks to J. H. Ingram, W. F. Gill, Eugene Didier,
      Sarah Helen Whitman and others these scandals have been dispelled and Poe
      is seen as he actually was—not as a man without failings, it is
      true, but as the finest and most original genius in American letters. As
      the years go on his fame increases. His works have been translated into
      many foreign languages. His is a household name in France and
      England—in fact, the latter nation has often uttered the reproach
      that Poe’s own country has been slow to appreciate him. But that
      reproach, if it ever was warranted, certainly is untrue.
    

W. H. R.