EDGAR ALLAN POE

AN APPRECIATION

   Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster

   Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—

   Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore

         Of “never—never more!”
 

      This stanza from “The Raven” was recommended by James Russell Lowell as an
      inscription upon the Baltimore monument which marks the resting place of
      Edgar Allan Poe, the most interesting and original figure in American
      letters. And, to signify that peculiar musical quality of Poe’s genius
      which inthralls every reader, Mr. Lowell suggested this additional verse,
      from the “Haunted Palace”:
    

   And all with pearl and ruby glowing

    Was the fair palace door,

   Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,

    And sparkling ever more,

   A troop of Echoes, whose sweet duty

    Was but to sing,

   In voices of surpassing beauty,

    The wit and wisdom of their king.

      “Here is one of the finest scholars, one of the most original men of
      genius, and one of the most industrious of the literary profession of our
      country, whose temporary suspension of labor, from bodily illness, drops
      him immediately to a level with the common objects of public charity.
      There is no intermediate stopping-place, no respectful shelter, where,
      with the delicacy due to genius and culture, he might secure aid, till,
      with returning health, he would resume his labors, and his unmortified
      sense of independence.”
     

      And this was the tribute paid by the American public to the master who had
      given to it such tales of conjuring charm, of witchery and mystery as “The
      Fall of the House of Usher” and “Ligeia”; such fascinating hoaxes as “The
      Unparalleled Adventure of Hans Pfaall,” “MSS. Found in a Bottle,” “A
      Descent Into a Maelstrom” and “The Balloon-Hoax”; such tales of conscience
      as “William Wilson,” “The Black Cat” and “The Tell-tale Heart,” wherein
      the retributions of remorse are portrayed with an awful fidelity; such
      tales of natural beauty as “The Island of the Fay” and “The Domain of
      Arnheim”; such marvellous studies in ratiocination as the “Gold-bug,” “The
      Murders in the Rue Morgue,” “The Purloined Letter” and “The Mystery of
      Marie Roget,” the latter, a recital of fact, demonstrating the author’s
      wonderful capability of correctly analyzing the mysteries of the human
      mind; such tales of illusion and banter as “The Premature Burial” and “The
      System of Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether”; such bits of extravaganza as
      “The Devil in the Belfry” and “The Angel of the Odd”; such tales of
      adventure as “The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym”; such papers of keen
      criticism and review as won for Poe the enthusiastic admiration of Charles
      Dickens, although they made him many enemies among the over-puffed minor
      American writers so mercilessly exposed by him; such poems of beauty and
      melody as “The Bells,” “The Haunted Palace,” “Tamerlane,” “The City in the
      Sea” and “The Raven.” What delight for the jaded senses of the reader is
      this enchanted domain of wonder-pieces! What an atmosphere of beauty,
      music, color! What resources of imagination, construction, analysis and
      absolute art! One might almost sympathize with Sarah Helen Whitman, who,
      confessing to a half faith in the old superstition of the significance of
      anagrams, found, in the transposed letters of Edgar Poe’s name, the words
      “a God-peer.” His mind, she says, was indeed a “Haunted Palace,” echoing
      to the footfalls of angels and demons.
    

      “No man,” Poe himself wrote, “has recorded, no man has dared to record,
      the wonders of his inner life.”
     

      In these twentieth century days—of lavish recognition—artistic,
      popular and material—of genius, what rewards might not a Poe claim!
    

      Edgar’s father, a son of General David Poe, the American revolutionary
      patriot and friend of Lafayette, had married Mrs. Hopkins, an English
      actress, and, the match meeting with parental disapproval, had himself
      taken to the stage as a profession. Notwithstanding Mrs. Poe’s beauty and
      talent the young couple had a sorry struggle for existence. When Edgar, at
      the age of two years, was orphaned, the family was in the utmost
      destitution. Apparently the future poet was to be cast upon the world
      homeless and friendless. But fate decreed that a few glimmers of sunshine
      were to illumine his life, for the little fellow was adopted by John
      Allan, a wealthy merchant of Richmond, Va. A brother and sister, the
      remaining children, were cared for by others.
    

      In his new home Edgar found all the luxury and advantages money could
      provide. He was petted, spoiled and shown off to strangers. In Mrs. Allan
      he found all the affection a childless wife could bestow. Mr. Allan took
      much pride in the captivating, precocious lad. At the age of five the boy
      recited, with fine effect, passages of English poetry to the visitors at
      the Allan house.
    

      From his eighth to his thirteenth year he attended the Manor House school,
      at Stoke-Newington, a suburb of London. It was the Rev. Dr. Bransby, head
      of the school, whom Poe so quaintly portrayed in “William Wilson.”
       Returning to Richmond in 1820 Edgar was sent to the school of Professor
      Joseph H. Clarke. He proved an apt pupil. Years afterward Professor Clarke
      thus wrote:
    

      “While the other boys wrote mere mechanical verses, Poe wrote genuine
      poetry; the boy was a born poet. As a scholar he was ambitious to excel.
      He was remarkable for self-respect, without haughtiness. He had a
      sensitive and tender heart and would do anything for a friend. His nature
      was entirely free from selfishness.”
     

      At the age of seventeen Poe entered the University of Virginia at
      Charlottesville. He left that institution after one session. Official
      records prove that he was not expelled. On the contrary, he gained a
      creditable record as a student, although it is admitted that he contracted
      debts and had “an ungovernable passion for card-playing.” These debts may
      have led to his quarrel with Mr. Allan which eventually compelled him to
      make his own way in the world.
    

      Early in 1827 Poe made his first literary venture. He induced Calvin
      Thomas, a poor and youthful printer, to publish a small volume of his
      verses under the title “Tamerlane and Other Poems.” In 1829 we find Poe in
      Baltimore with another manuscript volume of verses, which was soon
      published. Its title was “Al Aaraaf, Tamerlane and Other Poems.” Neither
      of these ventures seems to have attracted much attention.
    

      Soon after Mrs. Allan’s death, which occurred in 1829, Poe, through the
      aid of Mr. Allan, secured admission to the United States Military Academy
      at West Point. Any glamour which may have attached to cadet life in Poe’s
      eyes was speedily lost, for discipline at West Point was never so severe
      nor were the accommodations ever so poor. Poe’s bent was more and more
      toward literature. Life at the academy daily became increasingly
      distasteful. Soon he began to purposely neglect his studies and to
      disregard his duties, his aim being to secure his dismissal from the
      United States service. In this he succeeded. On March 7, 1831, Poe found
      himself free. Mr. Allan’s second marriage had thrown the lad on his own
      resources. His literary career was to begin.
    