On the harmony there?

      John Neal, himself a man of genius, and whose lyre has been too long
      capriciously silent, appreciated the high merit of these and similar
      passages, and drew a proud horoscope for their author.
    

      Mr. Poe had that indescribable something which men have agreed to call 
genius
.
      No man could ever tell us precisely what it is, and yet there is none who
      is not inevitably aware of its presence and its power. Let talent writhe
      and contort itself as it may, it has no such magnetism. Larger of bone and
      sinew it may be, but the wings are wanting. Talent sticks fast to earth,
      and its most perfect works have still one foot of clay. Genius claims
      kindred with the very workings of Nature herself, so that a sunset shall
      seem like a quotation from Dante, and if Shakespeare be read in the very
      presence of the sea itself, his verses shall but seem nobler for the
      sublime criticism of ocean. Talent may make friends for itself, but only
      genius can give to its creations the divine power of winning love and
      veneration. Enthusiasm cannot cling to what itself is unenthusiastic, nor
      will he ever have disciples who has not himself impulsive zeal enough to
      be a disciple. Great wits are allied to madness only inasmuch as they are
      possessed and carried away by their demon, while talent keeps him, as
      Paracelsus did, securely prisoned in the pommel of his sword. To the eye
      of genius, the veil of the spiritual world is ever rent asunder that it
      may perceive the ministers of good and evil who throng continually around
      it. No man of mere talent ever flung his inkstand at the devil.
    

      When we say that Mr. Poe had genius, we do not mean to say that he has
      produced evidence of the highest. But to say that he possesses it at all
      is to say that he needs only zeal, industry, and a reverence for the trust
      reposed in him, to achieve the proudest triumphs and the greenest laurels.
      If we may believe the Longinuses and Aristotles of our newspapers, we
      have quite too many geniuses of the loftiest order to render a place among
      them at all desirable, whether for its hardness of attainment or its
      seclusion. The highest peak of our Parnassus is, according to these
      gentlemen, by far the most thickly settled portion of the country, a
      circumstance which must make it an uncomfortable residence for individuals
      of a poetical temperament, if love of solitude be, as immemorial tradition
      asserts, a necessary part of their idiosyncrasy.
    

      Mr. Poe has two of the prime qualities of genius, a faculty of vigorous
      yet minute analysis, and a wonderful fecundity of imagination. The first
      of these faculties is as needful to the artist in words, as a knowledge of
      anatomy is to the artist in colors or in stone. This enables him to
      conceive truly, to maintain a proper relation of parts, and to draw a
      correct outline, while the second groups, fills up and colors. Both of
      these Mr. Poe has displayed with singular distinctness in his prose works,
      the last predominating in his earlier tales, and the first in his later
      ones. In judging of the merit of an author, and assigning him his niche
      among our household gods, we have a right to regard him from our own point
      of view, and to measure him by our own standard. But, in estimating the
      amount of power displayed in his works, we must be governed by his own
      design, and placing them by the side of his own ideal, find how much is
      wanting. We differ from Mr. Poe in his opinions of the objects of art. He
      esteems that object to be the creation of Beauty, and perhaps it is only
      in the definition of that word that we disagree with him. But in what we
      shall say of his writings, we shall take his own standard as our guide.
      The temple of the god of song is equally accessible from every side, and
      there is room enough in it for all who bring offerings, or seek in oracle.
    

      In his tales, Mr. Poe has chosen to exhibit his power chiefly in that dim
      region which stretches from the very utmost limits of the probable into
      the weird confines of superstition and unreality. He combines in a very
      remarkable manner two faculties which are seldom found united; a power of
      influencing the mind of the reader by the impalpable shadows of mystery,
      and a minuteness of detail which does not leave a pin or a button
      unnoticed. Both are, in truth, the natural results of the predominating
      quality of his mind, to which we have before alluded, analysis. It is this
      which distinguishes the artist. His mind at once reaches forward to the
      effect to be produced. Having resolved to bring about certain emotions in
      the reader, he makes all subordinate parts tend strictly to the common
      centre. Even his mystery is mathematical to his own mind. To him X is a
      known quantity all along. In any picture that he paints he understands the
      chemical properties of all his colors. However vague some of his figures
      may seem, however formless the shadows, to him the outline is as clear and
      distinct as that of a geometrical diagram. For this reason Mr. Poe has no
      sympathy with Mysticism. The Mystic dwells in the mystery, is enveloped
      with it; it colors all his thoughts; it affects his optic nerve
      especially, and the commonest things get a rainbow edging from it. Mr.
      Poe, on the other hand, is a spectator 
ab extra
. He analyzes, he
      dissects, he watches
    

    “with an eye serene,

     The very pulse of the machine,”
 

      for such it practically is to him, with wheels and cogs and piston-rods,
      all working to produce a certain end.
    

      This analyzing tendency of his mind balances the poetical, and by giving
      him the patience to be minute, enables him to throw a wonderful reality
      into his most unreal fancies. A monomania he paints with great power. He
      loves to dissect one of these cancers of the mind, and to trace all the
      subtle ramifications of its roots. In raising images of horror, also, he
      has strange success, conveying to us sometimes by a dusky hint some
      terrible 
doubt
 which is the secret of all horror. He leaves to
      imagination the task of finishing the picture, a task to which only she is
      competent.
    

     “For much imaginary work was there;

     Conceit deceitful, so compact, so kind,

     That for Achilles’ image stood his spear

     Grasped in an armed hand; himself behind

     Was left unseen, save to the eye of mind.”
 

      Besides the merit of conception, Mr. Poe’s writings have also that of
      form.
    

      His style is highly finished, graceful and truly classical. It would be
      hard to find a living author who had displayed such varied powers. As an
      example of his style we would refer to one of his tales, “The House of
      Usher,” in the first volume of his “Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque.”
       It has a singular charm for us, and we think that no one could read it
      without being strongly moved by its serene and sombre beauty. Had its
      author written nothing else, it would alone have been enough to stamp him
      as a man of genius, and the master of a classic style. In this tale
      occurs, perhaps, the most beautiful of his poems.
    

      The great masters of imagination have seldom resorted to the vague and the
      unreal as sources of effect. They have not used dread and horror alone,
      but only in combination with other qualities, as means of subjugating the
      fancies of their readers. The loftiest muse has ever a household and
      fireside charm about her. Mr. Poe’s secret lies mainly in the skill with
      which he has employed the strange fascination of mystery and terror. In
      this his success is so great and striking as to deserve the name of art,
      not artifice. We cannot call his materials the noblest or purest, but we
      must concede to him the highest merit of construction.
    

      As a critic, Mr. Poe was aesthetically deficient. Unerring in his analysis
      of dictions, metres and plots, he seemed wanting in the faculty of
      perceiving the profounder ethics of art. His criticisms are, however,
      distinguished for scientific precision and coherence of logic. They have
      the exactness, and at the same time, the coldness of mathematical
      demonstrations. Yet they stand in strikingly refreshing contrast with the
      vague generalisms and sharp personalities of the day. If deficient in
      warmth, they are also without the heat of partisanship. They are
      especially valuable as illustrating the great truth, too generally
      overlooked, that analytic power is a subordinate quality of the critic.
    

      On the whole, it may be considered certain that Mr. Poe has attained an
      individual eminence in our literature which he will keep. He has given
      proof of power and originality. He has done that which could only be done
      once with success or safety, and the imitation or repetition of which
      would produce weariness.