      The arrogance, vanity, and depravity of heart, of which Mr. Poe was
      generally accused, seem to us referable altogether to this reversed phase
      of his character. Under that degree of intoxication which only acted upon
      him by demonizing his sense of truth and right, he doubtless said and did
      much that was wholly irreconcilable with his better nature; but, when
      himself, and as we knew him only, his modesty and unaffected humility, as
      to his own deservings, were a constant charm to his character. His
      letters, of which the constant application for autographs has taken from
      us, we are sorry to confess, the greater portion, exhibited this quality
      very strongly. In one of the carelessly written notes of which we chance
      still to retain possession, for instance, he speaks of “The
      Raven”—that extraordinary poem which electrified the world of
      imaginative readers, and has become the type of a school of poetry of its
      own—and, in evident earnest, attributes its success to the few
      words of commendation with which we had prefaced it in this
      paper. It will throw light on his sane character to give a literal copy
      of the note:
    

“F
ORDHAM
, 
April
 20, 1849

      “M
Y
 D
EAR

      W
ILLIS
—The poem which I inclose, and which I am so
      vain as to hope you will like, in some respects, has been just published
      in a paper for which sheer necessity compels me to write, now and then.
      It pays well as times go-but unquestionably it ought to pay ten prices;
      for whatever I send it I feel I am consigning to the tomb of the
      Capulets. The verses accompanying this, may I beg you to take out of the
      tomb, and bring them to light in the ‘Home Journal?’ If you
      can oblige me so far as to copy them, I do not think it will be necessary
      to say ‘From the ——,’ that would be too bad; and,
      perhaps, ‘From a late —— paper,’ would do.
    

      “I have not forgotten how a ‘good word in season’ from
      you made ‘The Raven,’ and made ‘Ulalume’ (which
      by-the-way, people have done me the honor of attributing to you),
      therefore, I 
would
 ask you (if I dared) to say something of these
      lines if they please you.
    

“Truly yours ever,

“E
DGAR
 A. P
OE
.”
 

      In double proof of his earnest disposition to do the best for himself, and
      of the trustful and grateful nature which has been denied him, we give
      another of the only three of his notes which we chance to retain:
    

“F
ORDHAM
, 
January
 22, 1848.

      “M
Y
 D
EAR
 M
R
.
      W
ILLIS
—I am about to make an effort at re-establishing
      myself in the literary world, and 
feel
 that I may depend upon your
      aid.
    

      “My general aim is to start a Magazine, to be called ‘The Stylus,’ but it
      would be useless to me, even when established, if not entirely out of the
      control of a publisher. I mean, therefore, to get up a journal which shall
      be 
my own
 at all points. With this end in view, I must get a list
      of at least five hundred subscribers to begin with; nearly two hundred I
      have already. I propose, however, to go South and West, among my personal
      and literary friends—old college and West Point acquaintances—and
      see what I can do. In order to get the means of taking the first step, I
      propose to lecture at the Society Library, on Thursday, the 3d of
      February, and, that there may be no cause of 
squabbling
, my subject
      shall 
not be literary
 at all. I have chosen a broad text: ‘The
      Universe.’
    

      “Having thus given you 
the facts
 of the case, I leave all the rest
      to the suggestions of your own tact and generosity. Gratefully, 
most
      gratefully,

“Your friend always,

“E
DGAR
 A. P
OE
.”
 

      Brief and chance-taken as these letters are, we think they sufficiently
      prove the existence of the very qualities denied to Mr. Poe-humility,
      willingness to persevere, belief in another’s friendship, and capability
      of cordial and grateful friendship! Such he assuredly was when sane. Such
      only he has invariably seemed to us, in all we have happened personally to
      know of him, through a friendship of five or six years. And so much easier
      is it to believe what we have seen and known, than what we hear of only,
      that we remember him but with admiration and respect; these descriptions
      of him, when morally insane, seeming to us like portraits, painted in
      sickness, of a man we have only known in health.
    

      But there is another, more touching, and far more forcible evidence that
      there was 
goodness
 in Edgar A. Poe. To reveal it we are obliged to
      venture upon the lifting of the veil which sacredly covers grief and
      refinement in poverty; but we think it may be excused, if so we can
      brighten the memory of the poet, even were there not a more needed and
      immediate service which it may render to the nearest link broken by his
      death.
    

      Our first knowledge of Mr. Poe’s removal to this city was by a call which
      we received from a lady who introduced herself to us as the mother of his
      wife. She was in search of employment for him, and she excused her errand
      by mentioning that he was ill, that her daughter was a confirmed invalid,
      and that their circumstances were such as compelled her taking it upon
      herself. The countenance of this lady, made beautiful and saintly with an
      evidently complete giving up of her life to privation and sorrowful
      tenderness, her gentle and mournful voice urging its plea, her
      long-forgotten but habitually and unconsciously refined manners, and her
      appealing and yet appreciative mention of the claims and abilities of her
      son, disclosed at once the presence of one of those angels upon earth that
      women in adversity can be. It was a hard fate that she was watching over.
      Mr. Poe wrote with fastidious difficulty, and in a style too much above
      the popular level to be well paid. He was always in pecuniary difficulty,
      and, with his sick wife, frequently in want of the merest necessaries of
      life. Winter after winter, for years, the most touching sight to us, in
      this whole city, has been that tireless minister to genius, thinly and
      insufficiently clad, going from office to office with a poem, or an
      article on some literary subject, to sell, sometimes simply pleading in a
      broken voice that he was ill, and begging for him, mentioning nothing but
      that “he was ill,” whatever might be the reason for his writing nothing,
      and never, amid all her tears and recitals of distress, suffering one
      syllable to escape her lips that could convey a doubt of him, or a
      complaint, or a lessening of pride in his genius and good intentions. Her
      daughter died a year and a half since, but she did not desert him. She
      continued his ministering angel—living with him, caring for him,
      guarding him against exposure, and when he was carried away by temptation,
      amid grief and the loneliness of feelings unreplied to, and awoke from his
      self abandonment prostrated in destitution and suffering, 
begging

      for him still. If woman’s devotion, born with a first love, and fed with
      human passion, hallow its object, as it is allowed to do, what does not a
      devotion like this—pure, disinterested and holy as the watch of an
      invisible spirit—say for him who inspired it?
    

      We have a letter before us, written by this lady, Mrs. Clemm, on the
      morning in which she heard of the death of this object of her untiring
      care. It is merely a request that we would call upon her, but we will copy
      a few of its words—sacred as its privacy is—to warrant the
      truth of the picture we have drawn above, and add force to the appeal we
      wish to make for her:
    

      “I have this morning heard of the death of my darling Eddie.... Can you
      give me any circumstances or particulars?... Oh! do not desert your poor
      friend in his bitter affliction!... Ask Mr. —— to come, as I
      must deliver a message to him from my poor Eddie.... I need not ask you to
      notice his death and to speak well of him. I know you will. But say what
      an affectionate son he was to me, his poor desolate mother...”
     

      To hedge round a grave with respect, what choice is there, between the
      relinquished wealth and honors of the world, and the story of such a
      woman’s unrewarded devotion! Risking what we do, in delicacy, by making it
      public, we feel—other reasons aside—that it betters the world
      to make known that there are such ministrations to its erring and gifted.
      What we have said will speak to some hearts. There are those who will be
      glad to know how the lamp, whose light of poetry has beamed on their
      far-away recognition, was watched over with care and pain, that they may
      send to her, who is more darkened than they by its extinction, some token
      of their sympathy. She is destitute and alone. If any, far or near, will
      send to us what may aid and cheer her through the remainder of her life,
      we will joyfully place it in her hands.