“In about four hours and a half I found the balloon sufficiently inflated.
      I attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in it—not
      forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water, and a
      large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much nutriment is
      contained in comparatively little bulk. I also secured in the car a pair
      of pigeons and a cat. It was now nearly daybreak, and I thought it high
      time to take my departure. Dropping a lighted cigar on the ground, as if
      by accident, I took the opportunity, in stooping to pick it up, of
      igniting privately the piece of slow match, whose end, as I said before,
      protruded a very little beyond the lower rim of one of the smaller casks.
      This manoeuvre was totally unperceived on the part of the three duns; and,
      jumping into the car, I immediately cut the single cord which held me to
      the earth, and was pleased to find that I shot upward, carrying with all
      ease one hundred and seventy-five pounds of leaden ballast, and able to
      have carried up as many more.
    

      “Scarcely, however, had I attained the height of fifty yards, when,
      roaring and rumbling up after me in the most horrible and tumultuous
      manner, came so dense a hurricane of fire, and smoke, and sulphur, and
      legs and arms, and gravel, and burning wood, and blazing metal, that my
      very heart sunk within me, and I fell down in the bottom of the car,
      trembling with unmitigated terror. Indeed, I now perceived that I had
      entirely overdone the business, and that the main consequences of the
      shock were yet to be experienced. Accordingly, in less than a second, I
      felt all the blood in my body rushing to my temples, and immediately
      thereupon, a concussion, which I shall never forget, burst abruptly
      through the night and seemed to rip the very firmament asunder. When I
      afterward had time for reflection, I did not fail to attribute the extreme
      violence of the explosion, as regarded myself, to its proper cause—my
      situation directly above it, and in the line of its greatest power. But at
      the time, I thought only of preserving my life. The balloon at first
      collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round and round with
      horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering like a drunken man,
      hurled me with great force over the rim of the car, and left me dangling,
      at a terrific height, with my head downward, and my face outwards, by a
      piece of slender cord about three feet in length, which hung accidentally
      through a crevice near the bottom of the wicker-work, and in which, as I
      fell, my left foot became most providentially entangled. It is impossible—utterly
      impossible—to form any adequate idea of the horror of my situation.
      I gasped convulsively for breath—a shudder resembling a fit of the
      ague agitated every nerve and muscle of my frame—I felt my eyes
      starting from their sockets—a horrible nausea overwhelmed me—and
      at length I fainted away.
    

      “How long I remained in this state it is impossible to say. It must,
      however, have been no inconsiderable time, for when I partially recovered
      the sense of existence, I found the day breaking, the balloon at a
      prodigious height over a wilderness of ocean, and not a trace of land to
      be discovered far and wide within the limits of the vast horizon. My
      sensations, however, upon thus recovering, were by no means so rife with
      agony as might have been anticipated. Indeed, there was much of incipient
      madness in the calm survey which I began to take of my situation. I drew
      up to my eyes each of my hands, one after the other, and wondered what
      occurrence could have given rise to the swelling of the veins, and the
      horrible blackness of the fingernails. I afterward carefully examined my
      head, shaking it repeatedly, and feeling it with minute attention, until I
      succeeded in satisfying myself that it was not, as I had more than half
      suspected, larger than my balloon. Then, in a knowing manner, I felt in
      both my breeches pockets, and, missing therefrom a set of tablets and a
      toothpick case, endeavored to account for their disappearance, and not
      being able to do so, felt inexpressibly chagrined. It now occurred to me
      that I suffered great uneasiness in the joint of my left ankle, and a dim
      consciousness of my situation began to glimmer through my mind. But,
      strange to say! I was neither astonished nor horror-stricken. If I felt
      any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the
      cleverness I was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma;
      and I never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question
      susceptible of doubt. For a few minutes I remained wrapped in the
      profoundest meditation. I have a distinct recollection of frequently
      compressing my lips, putting my forefinger to the side of my nose, and
      making use of other gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease
      in their arm-chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance.
      Having, as I thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, I now, with great
      caution and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the
      large iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles.
      This buckle had three teeth, which, being somewhat rusty, turned with
      great difficulty on their axis. I brought them, however, after some
      trouble, at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find
      them remain firm in that position. Holding the instrument thus obtained
      within my teeth, I now proceeded to untie the knot of my cravat. I had to
      rest several times before I could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it was at
      length accomplished. To one end of the cravat I then made fast the buckle,
      and the other end I tied, for greater security, tightly around my wrist.
      Drawing now my body upwards, with a prodigious exertion of muscular force,
      I succeeded, at the very first trial, in throwing the buckle over the car,
      and entangling it, as I had anticipated, in the circular rim of the
      wicker-work.
    

      “My body was now inclined towards the side of the car, at an angle of
      about forty-five degrees; but it must not be understood that I was
      therefore only forty-five degrees below the perpendicular. So far from it,
      I still lay nearly level with the plane of the horizon; for the change of
      situation which I had acquired, had forced the bottom of the car
      considerably outwards from my position, which was accordingly one of the
      most imminent and deadly peril. It should be remembered, however, that
      when I fell in the first instance, from the car, if I had fallen with my
      face turned toward the balloon, instead of turned outwardly from it, as it
      actually was; or if, in the second place, the cord by which I was
      suspended had chanced to hang over the upper edge, instead of through a
      crevice near the bottom of the car,—I say it may be readily
      conceived that, in either of these supposed cases, I should have been
      unable to accomplish even as much as I had now accomplished, and the
      wonderful adventures of Hans Pfaall would have been utterly lost to
      posterity, I had therefore every reason to be grateful; although, in point
      of fact, I was still too stupid to be anything at all, and hung for,
      perhaps, a quarter of an hour in that extraordinary manner, without making
      the slightest farther exertion whatsoever, and in a singularly tranquil
      state of idiotic enjoyment. But this feeling did not fail to die rapidly
      away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a chilling sense of
      utter helplessness and ruin. In fact, the blood so long accumulating in
      the vessels of my head and throat, and which had hitherto buoyed up my
      spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun to retire within their
      proper channels, and the distinctness which was thus added to my
      perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me of the
      self-possession and courage to encounter it. But this weakness was,
      luckily for me, of no very long duration. In good time came to my rescue
      the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, I jerked my
      way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise-like grip the
      long-desired rim, I writhed my person over it, and fell headlong and
      shuddering within the car.
    

      “It was not until some time afterward that I recovered myself sufficiently
      to attend to the ordinary cares of the balloon. I then, however, examined
      it with attention, and found it, to my great relief, uninjured. My
      implements were all safe, and, fortunately, I had lost neither ballast nor
      provisions. Indeed, I had so well secured them in their places, that such
      an accident was entirely out of the question. Looking at my watch, I found
      it six o’clock. I was still rapidly ascending, and my barometer gave a
      present altitude of three and three-quarter miles. Immediately beneath me
      in the ocean, lay a small black object, slightly oblong in shape,
      seemingly about the size, and in every way bearing a great resemblance to
      one of those childish toys called a domino. Bringing my telescope to bear
      upon it, I plainly discerned it to be a British ninety four-gun ship,
      close-hauled, and pitching heavily in the sea with her head to the W.S.W.
      Besides this ship, I saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun,
      which had long arisen.
    

      “It is now high time that I should explain to your Excellencies the object
      of my perilous voyage. Your Excellencies will bear in mind that distressed
      circumstances in Rotterdam had at length driven me to the resolution of
      committing suicide. It was not, however, that to life itself I had any
      positive disgust, but that I was harassed beyond endurance by the
      adventitious miseries attending my situation. In this state of mind,
      wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at the stall of the
      bookseller opened a resource to my imagination. I then finally made up my
      mind. I determined to depart, yet live—to leave the world, yet
      continue to exist—in short, to drop enigmas, I resolved, let what
      would ensue, to force a passage, if I could, to the moon. Now, lest I
      should be supposed more of a madman than I actually am, I will detail, as
      well as I am able, the considerations which led me to believe that an
      achievement of this nature, although without doubt difficult, and
      incontestably full of danger, was not absolutely, to a bold spirit, beyond
      the confines of the possible.
    

      “The moon’s actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be
      attended to. Now, the mean or average interval between the centres of the
      two planets is 59.9643 of the earth’s equatorial radii, or only about
      237,000 miles. I say the mean or average interval, but it must be borne in
      mind that the form of the moon’s orbit being an ellipse of eccentricity
      amounting to no less than 0.05484 of the major semi-axis of the ellipse
      itself, and the earth’s centre being situated in its focus, if I could, in
      any manner, contrive to meet the moon, as it were, in its perigee, the
      above mentioned distance would be materially diminished. But, to say
      nothing at present of this possibility, it was very certain that, at all
      events, from the 237,000 miles I would have to deduct the radius of the
      earth, say 4,000, and the radius of the moon, say 1,080, in all 5,080,
      leaving an actual interval to be traversed, under average circumstances,
      of 231,920 miles. Now this, I reflected, was no very extraordinary
      distance. Travelling on land has been repeatedly accomplished at the rate
      of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much greater speed may be
      anticipated. But even at this velocity, it would take me no more than 322
      days to reach the surface of the moon. There were, however, many
      particulars inducing me to believe that my average rate of travelling
      might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles per hour, and, as
      these considerations did not fail to make a deep impression upon my mind,
      I will mention them more fully hereafter.
    