“In about four hours and a half I found the balloon sufficiently inflated.
      I attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in it—not
      forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water, and a
      large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much nutriment is
      contained in comparatively little bulk. I also secured in the car a pair
      of pigeons and a cat. It was now nearly daybreak, and I thought it high
      time to take my departure. Dropping a lighted cigar on the ground, as if
      by accident, I took the opportunity, in stooping to pick it up, of
      igniting privately the piece of slow match, whose end, as I said before,
      protruded a very little beyond the lower rim of one of the smaller casks.
      This manoeuvre was totally unperceived on the part of the three duns; and,
      jumping into the car, I immediately cut the single cord which held me to
      the earth, and was pleased to find that I shot upward, carrying with all
      ease one hundred and seventy-five pounds of leaden ballast, and able to
      have carried up as many more.
    

      “Scarcely, however, had I attained the height of fifty yards, when,
      roaring and rumbling up after me in the most horrible and tumultuous
      manner, came so dense a hurricane of fire, and smoke, and sulphur, and
      legs and arms, and gravel, and burning wood, and blazing metal, that my
      very heart sunk within me, and I fell down in the bottom of the car,
      trembling with unmitigated terror. Indeed, I now perceived that I had
      entirely overdone the business, and that the main consequences of the
      shock were yet to be experienced. Accordingly, in less than a second, I
      felt all the blood in my body rushing to my temples, and immediately
      thereupon, a concussion, which I shall never forget, burst abruptly
      through the night and seemed to rip the very firmament asunder. When I
      afterward had time for reflection, I did not fail to attribute the extreme
      violence of the explosion, as regarded myself, to its proper cause—my
      situation directly above it, and in the line of its greatest power. But at
      the time, I thought only of preserving my life. The balloon at first
      collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round and round with
      horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering like a drunken man,
      hurled me with great force over the rim of the car, and left me dangling,
      at a terrific height, with my head downward, and my face outwards, by a
      piece of slender cord about three feet in length, which hung accidentally
      through a crevice near the bottom of the wicker-work, and in which, as I
      fell, my left foot became most providentially entangled. It is impossible—utterly
      impossible—to form any adequate idea of the horror of my situation.
      I gasped convulsively for breath—a shudder resembling a fit of the
      ague agitated every nerve and muscle of my frame—I felt my eyes
      starting from their sockets—a horrible nausea overwhelmed me—and
      at length I fainted away.
    

      “How long I remained in this state it is impossible to say. It must,
      however, have been no inconsiderable time, for when I partially recovered
      the sense of existence, I found the day breaking, the balloon at a
      prodigious height over a wilderness of ocean, and not a trace of land to
      be discovered far and wide within the limits of the vast horizon. My
      sensations, however, upon thus recovering, were by no means so rife with
      agony as might have been anticipated. Indeed, there was much of incipient
      madness in the calm survey which I began to take of my situation. I drew
      up to my eyes each of my hands, one after the other, and wondered what
      occurrence could have given rise to the swelling of the veins, and the
      horrible blackness of the fingernails. I afterward carefully examined my
      head, shaking it repeatedly, and feeling it with minute attention, until I
      succeeded in satisfying myself that it was not, as I had more than half
      suspected, larger than my balloon. Then, in a knowing manner, I felt in
      both my breeches pockets, and, missing therefrom a set of tablets and a
      toothpick case, endeavored to account for their disappearance, and not
      being able to do so, felt inexpressibly chagrined. It now occurred to me
      that I suffered great uneasiness in the joint of my left ankle, and a dim
      consciousness of my situation began to glimmer through my mind. But,
      strange to say! I was neither astonished nor horror-stricken. If I felt
      any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the
      cleverness I was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma;
      and I never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question
      susceptible of doubt. For a few minutes I remained wrapped in the
      profoundest meditation. I have a distinct recollection of frequently
      compressing my lips, putting my forefinger to the side of my nose, and
      making use of other gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease
      in their arm-chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance.
      Having, as I thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, I now, with great
      caution and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the
      large iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles.
      This buckle had three teeth, which, being somewhat rusty, turned with
      great difficulty on their axis. I brought them, however, after some
      trouble, at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find
      them remain firm in that position. Holding the instrument thus obtained
      within my teeth, I now proceeded to untie the knot of my cravat. I had to
      rest several times before I could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it was at
      length accomplished. To one end of the cravat I then made fast the buckle,
      and the other end I tied, for greater security, tightly around my wrist.
      Drawing now my body upwards, with a prodigious exertion of muscular force,
      I succeeded, at the very first trial, in throwing the buckle over the car,
      and entangling it, as I had anticipated, in the circular rim of the
      wicker-work.
    

      “My body was now inclined towards the side of the car, at an angle of
      about forty-five degrees; but it must not be understood that I was
      therefore only forty-five degrees below the perpendicular. So far from it,
      I still lay nearly level with the plane of the horizon; for the change of
      situation which I had acquired, had forced the bottom of the car
      considerably outwards from my position, which was accordingly one of the
      most imminent and deadly peril. It should be remembered, however, that
      when I fell in the first instance, from the car, if I had fallen with my
      face turned toward the balloon, instead of turned outwardly from it, as it
      actually was; or if, in the second place, the cord by which I was
      suspended had chanced to hang over the upper edge, instead of through a
      crevice near the bottom of the car,—I say it may be readily
      conceived that, in either of these supposed cases, I should have been
      unable to accomplish even as much as I had now accomplished, and the
      wonderful adventures of Hans Pfaall would have been utterly lost to
      posterity, I had therefore every reason to be grateful; although, in point
      of fact, I was still too stupid to be anything at all, and hung for,
      perhaps, a quarter of an hour in that extraordinary manner, without making
      the slightest farther exertion whatsoever, and in a singularly tranquil
      state of idiotic enjoyment. But this feeling did not fail to die rapidly
      away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a chilling sense of
      utter helplessness and ruin. In fact, the blood so long accumulating in
      the vessels of my head and throat, and which had hitherto buoyed up my
      spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun to retire within their
      proper channels, and the distinctness which was thus added to my
      perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me of the
      self-possession and courage to encounter it. But this weakness was,
      luckily for me, of no very long duration. In good time came to my rescue
      the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, I jerked my
      way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise-like grip the
      long-desired rim, I writhed my person over it, and fell headlong and
      shuddering within the car.
    

      “It was not until some time afterward that I recovered myself sufficiently
      to attend to the ordinary cares of the balloon. I then, however, examined
      it with attention, and found it, to my great relief, uninjured. My
      implements were all safe, and, fortunately, I had lost neither ballast nor
      provisions. Indeed, I had so well secured them in their places, that such
      an accident was entirely out of the question. Looking at my watch, I found
      it six o’clock. I was still rapidly ascending, and my barometer gave a
      present altitude of three and three-quarter miles. Immediately beneath me
      in the ocean, lay a small black object, slightly oblong in shape,
      seemingly about the size, and in every way bearing a great resemblance to
      one of those childish toys called a domino. Bringing my telescope to bear
      upon it, I plainly discerned it to be a British ninety four-gun ship,
      close-hauled, and pitching heavily in the sea with her head to the W.S.W.
      Besides this ship, I saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun,
      which had long arisen.
    

      “It is now high time that I should explain to your Excellencies the object
      of my perilous voyage. Your Excellencies will bear in mind that distressed
      circumstances in Rotterdam had at length driven me to the resolution of
      committing suicide. It was not, however, that to life itself I had any
      positive disgust, but that I was harassed beyond endurance by the
      adventitious miseries attending my situation. In this state of mind,
      wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at the stall of the
      bookseller opened a resource to my imagination. I then finally made up my
      mind. I determined to depart, yet live—to leave the world, yet
      continue to exist—in short, to drop enigmas, I resolved, let what
      would ensue, to force a passage, if I could, to the moon. Now, lest I
      should be supposed more of a madman than I actually am, I will detail, as
      well as I am able, the considerations which led me to believe that an
      achievement of this nature, although without doubt difficult, and
      incontestably full of danger, was not absolutely, to a bold spirit, beyond
      the confines of the possible.
    

      “The moon’s actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be
      attended to. Now, the mean or average interval between the centres of the
      two planets is 59.9643 of the earth’s equatorial radii, or only about
      237,000 miles. I say the mean or average interval, but it must be borne in
      mind that the form of the moon’s orbit being an ellipse of eccentricity
      amounting to no less than 0.05484 of the major semi-axis of the ellipse
      itself, and the earth’s centre being situated in its focus, if I could, in
      any manner, contrive to meet the moon, as it were, in its perigee, the
      above mentioned distance would be materially diminished. But, to say
      nothing at present of this possibility, it was very certain that, at all
      events, from the 237,000 miles I would have to deduct the radius of the
      earth, say 4,000, and the radius of the moon, say 1,080, in all 5,080,
      leaving an actual interval to be traversed, under average circumstances,
      of 231,920 miles. Now this, I reflected, was no very extraordinary
      distance. Travelling on land has been repeatedly accomplished at the rate
      of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much greater speed may be
      anticipated. But even at this velocity, it would take me no more than 322
      days to reach the surface of the moon. There were, however, many
      particulars inducing me to believe that my average rate of travelling
      might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles per hour, and, as
      these considerations did not fail to make a deep impression upon my mind,
      I will mention them more fully hereafter.
    

      “The next point to be regarded was a matter of far greater importance.
      From indications afforded by the barometer, we find that, in ascensions
      from the surface of the earth we have, at the height of 1,000 feet, left
      below us about one-thirtieth of the entire mass of atmospheric air, that
      at 10,600 we have ascended through nearly one-third; and that at 18,000,
      which is not far from the elevation of Cotopaxi, we have surmounted
      one-half the material, or, at all events, one-half the ponderable, body of
      air incumbent upon our globe. It is also calculated that at an altitude
      not exceeding the hundredth part of the earth’s diameter—that is,
      not exceeding eighty miles—the rarefaction would be so excessive
      that animal life could in no manner be sustained, and, moreover, that the
      most delicate means we possess of ascertaining the presence of the
      atmosphere would be inadequate to assure us of its existence. But I did
      not fail to perceive that these latter calculations are founded altogether
      on our experimental knowledge of the properties of air, and the mechanical
      laws regulating its dilation and compression, in what may be called,
      comparatively speaking, the immediate vicinity of the earth itself; and,
      at the same time, it is taken for granted that animal life is and must be
      essentially incapable of modification at any given unattainable distance
      from the surface. Now, all such reasoning and from such data must, of
      course, be simply analogical. The greatest height ever reached by man was
      that of 25,000 feet, attained in the aeronautic expedition of Messieurs
      Gay-Lussac and Biot. This is a moderate altitude, even when compared with
      the eighty miles in question; and I could not help thinking that the
      subject admitted room for doubt and great latitude for speculation.
    

      “But, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude, the
      ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is by no
      means in proportion to the additional height ascended (as may be plainly
      seen from what has been stated before), but in a ratio constantly
      decreasing. It is therefore evident that, ascend as high as we may, we
      cannot, literally speaking, arrive at a limit beyond which no atmosphere
      is to be found. It must exist, I argued; although it may exist in a state
      of infinite rarefaction.
    

      “On the other hand, I was aware that arguments have not been
      wanting to prove the existence of a real and definite limit to the
      atmosphere, beyond which there is absolutely no air whatsoever. But a
      circumstance which has been left out of view by those who contend for
      such a limit seemed to me, although no positive refutation of their
      creed, still a point worthy very serious investigation. On comparing the
      intervals between the successive arrivals of Encke’s comet at its
      perihelion, after giving credit, in the most exact manner, for all the
      disturbances due to the attractions of the planets, it appears that the
      periods are gradually diminishing; that is to say, the major axis of the
      comet’s ellipse is growing shorter, in a slow but perfectly regular
      decrease. Now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose
      a resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal
      medium pervading the regions of its orbit. For it is evident that such a
      medium must, in retarding the comet’s velocity, increase its
      centripetal, by weakening its centrifugal force. In other words, the
      sun’s attraction would be constantly attaining greater power, and
      the comet would be drawn nearer at every revolution. Indeed, there is no
      other way of accounting for the variation in question. But
      again:—The real diameter of the same comet’s nebulosity is
      observed to contract rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with
      equal rapidity in its departure towards its aphelion. Was I not
      justifiable in supposing with M. Valz, that this apparent condensation of
      volume has its origin in the compression of the same ethereal medium I
      have spoken of before, and which is only denser in proportion to its
      solar vicinity? The lenticular-shaped phenomenon, also called the
      zodiacal light, was a matter worthy of attention. This radiance, so
      apparent in the tropics, and which cannot be mistaken for any meteoric
      lustre, extends from the horizon obliquely upward, and follows generally
      the direction of the sun’s equator. It appeared to me evidently in
      the nature of a rare atmosphere extending from the sun outward, beyond
      the orbit of Venus at least, and I believed indefinitely farther.(*2)
      Indeed, this medium I could not suppose confined to the path of the
      comet’s ellipse, or to the immediate neighborhood of the sun. It
      was easy, on the contrary, to imagine it pervading the entire regions of
      our planetary system, condensed into what we call atmosphere at the
      planets themselves, and perhaps at some of them modified by
      considerations, so to speak, purely geological.
    

      “Having adopted this view of the subject, I had little further hesitation.
      Granting that on my passage I should meet with atmosphere essentially the
      same as at the surface of the earth, I conceived that, by means of the
      very ingenious apparatus of M. Grimm, I should readily be enabled to
      condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of respiration. This
      would remove the chief obstacle in a journey to the moon. I had indeed
      spent some money and great labor in adapting the apparatus to the object
      intended, and confidently looked forward to its successful application, if
      I could manage to complete the voyage within any reasonable period. This
      brings me back to the rate at which it might be possible to travel.
    

      “It is true that balloons, in the first stage of their ascensions from the
      earth, are known to rise with a velocity comparatively moderate. Now, the
      power of elevation lies altogether in the superior lightness of the gas in
      the balloon compared with the atmospheric air; and, at first sight, it
      does not appear probable that, as the balloon acquires altitude, and
      consequently arrives successively in atmospheric strata of densities
      rapidly diminishing—I say, it does not appear at all reasonable
      that, in this its progress upwards, the original velocity should be
      accelerated. On the other hand, I was not aware that, in any recorded
      ascension, a diminution was apparent in the absolute rate of ascent;
      although such should have been the case, if on account of nothing else, on
      account of the escape of gas through balloons ill-constructed, and
      varnished with no better material than the ordinary varnish. It seemed,
      therefore, that the effect of such escape was only sufficient to
      counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power. I now considered
      that, provided in my passage I found the medium I had imagined, and
      provided that it should prove to be actually and essentially what we
      denominate atmospheric air, it could make comparatively little difference
      at what extreme state of rarefaction I should discover it—that is to
      say, in regard to my power of ascending—for the gas in the balloon
      would not only be itself subject to rarefaction partially similar (in
      proportion to the occurrence of which, I could suffer an escape of so much
      as would be requisite to prevent explosion), but, being what it was,
      would, at all events, continue specifically lighter than any compound
      whatever of mere nitrogen and oxygen. In the meantime, the force of
      gravitation would be constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares
      of the distances, and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, I
      should at length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the
      earth’s attraction would be superseded by that of the moon. In accordance
      with these ideas, I did not think it worth while to encumber myself with
      more provisions than would be sufficient for a period of forty days.
    

      “There was still, however, another difficulty, which occasioned me some
      little disquietude. It has been observed, that, in balloon ascensions to
      any considerable height, besides the pain attending respiration, great
      uneasiness is experienced about the head and body, often accompanied with
      bleeding at the nose, and other symptoms of an alarming kind, and growing
      more and more inconvenient in proportion to the altitude attained.(*3)
      This was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling. Was it not probable
      that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at least until
      terminated by death itself? I finally thought not. Their origin was to be
      looked for in the progressive removal of the customary atmospheric
      pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent distention of the
      superficial blood-vessels—not in any positive disorganization of the
      animal system, as in the case of difficulty in breathing, where the
      atmospheric density is chemically insufficient for the due renovation of
      blood in a ventricle of the heart. Unless for default of this renovation,
      I could see no reason, therefore, why life could not be sustained even in
      a vacuum; for the expansion and compression of chest, commonly called
      breathing, is action purely muscular, and the cause, not the effect, of
      respiration. In a word, I conceived that, as the body should become
      habituated to the want of atmospheric pressure, the sensations of pain
      would gradually diminish—and to endure them while they continued, I
      relied with confidence upon the iron hardihood of my constitution.
    

      “Thus, may it please your Excellencies, I have detailed some, though by no
      means all, the considerations which led me to form the project of a lunar
      voyage. I shall now proceed to lay before you the result of an attempt so
      apparently audacious in conception, and, at all events, so utterly
      unparalleled in the annals of mankind.
    

      “Having attained the altitude before mentioned, that is to say three miles
      and three-quarters, I threw out from the car a quantity of feathers, and
      found that I still ascended with sufficient rapidity; there was,
      therefore, no necessity for discharging any ballast. I was glad of this,
      for I wished to retain with me as much weight as I could carry, for
      reasons which will be explained in the sequel. I as yet suffered no bodily
      inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and feeling no pain whatever
      in the head. The cat was lying very demurely upon my coat, which I had
      taken off, and eyeing the pigeons with an air of nonchalance. These latter
      being tied by the leg, to prevent their escape, were busily employed in
      picking up some grains of rice scattered for them in the bottom of the
      car.
    

      “At twenty minutes past six o’clock, the barometer showed an elevation of
      26,400 feet, or five miles to a fraction. The prospect seemed unbounded.
      Indeed, it is very easily calculated by means of spherical geometry, what
      a great extent of the earth’s area I beheld. The convex surface of any
      segment of a sphere is, to the entire surface of the sphere itself, as the
      versed sine of the segment to the diameter of the sphere. Now, in my case,
      the versed sine—that is to say, the thickness of the segment beneath
      me—was about equal to my elevation, or the elevation of the point of
      sight above the surface. ‘As five miles, then, to eight thousand,’ would
      express the proportion of the earth’s area seen by me. In other words, I
      beheld as much as a sixteen-hundredth part of the whole surface of the
      globe. The sea appeared unruffled as a mirror, although, by means of the
      spy-glass, I could perceive it to be in a state of violent agitation. The
      ship was no longer visible, having drifted away, apparently to the
      eastward. I now began to experience, at intervals, severe pain in the
      head, especially about the ears—still, however, breathing with
      tolerable freedom. The cat and pigeons seemed to suffer no inconvenience
      whatsoever.