      “The next point to be regarded was a matter of far greater importance.
      From indications afforded by the barometer, we find that, in ascensions
      from the surface of the earth we have, at the height of 1,000 feet, left
      below us about one-thirtieth of the entire mass of atmospheric air, that
      at 10,600 we have ascended through nearly one-third; and that at 18,000,
      which is not far from the elevation of Cotopaxi, we have surmounted
      one-half the material, or, at all events, one-half the ponderable, body of
      air incumbent upon our globe. It is also calculated that at an altitude
      not exceeding the hundredth part of the earth’s diameter—that is,
      not exceeding eighty miles—the rarefaction would be so excessive
      that animal life could in no manner be sustained, and, moreover, that the
      most delicate means we possess of ascertaining the presence of the
      atmosphere would be inadequate to assure us of its existence. But I did
      not fail to perceive that these latter calculations are founded altogether
      on our experimental knowledge of the properties of air, and the mechanical
      laws regulating its dilation and compression, in what may be called,
      comparatively speaking, the immediate vicinity of the earth itself; and,
      at the same time, it is taken for granted that animal life is and must be
      essentially incapable of modification at any given unattainable distance
      from the surface. Now, all such reasoning and from such data must, of
      course, be simply analogical. The greatest height ever reached by man was
      that of 25,000 feet, attained in the aeronautic expedition of Messieurs
      Gay-Lussac and Biot. This is a moderate altitude, even when compared with
      the eighty miles in question; and I could not help thinking that the
      subject admitted room for doubt and great latitude for speculation.
    

      “But, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude, the
      ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is by no
      means in proportion to the additional height ascended (as may be plainly
      seen from what has been stated before), but in a ratio constantly
      decreasing. It is therefore evident that, ascend as high as we may, we
      cannot, literally speaking, arrive at a limit beyond which no atmosphere
      is to be found. It must exist, I argued; although it may exist in a state
      of infinite rarefaction.
    

      “On the other hand, I was aware that arguments have not been
      wanting to prove the existence of a real and definite limit to the
      atmosphere, beyond which there is absolutely no air whatsoever. But a
      circumstance which has been left out of view by those who contend for
      such a limit seemed to me, although no positive refutation of their
      creed, still a point worthy very serious investigation. On comparing the
      intervals between the successive arrivals of Encke’s comet at its
      perihelion, after giving credit, in the most exact manner, for all the
      disturbances due to the attractions of the planets, it appears that the
      periods are gradually diminishing; that is to say, the major axis of the
      comet’s ellipse is growing shorter, in a slow but perfectly regular
      decrease. Now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose
      a resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal
      medium pervading the regions of its orbit. For it is evident that such a
      medium must, in retarding the comet’s velocity, increase its
      centripetal, by weakening its centrifugal force. In other words, the
      sun’s attraction would be constantly attaining greater power, and
      the comet would be drawn nearer at every revolution. Indeed, there is no
      other way of accounting for the variation in question. But
      again:—The real diameter of the same comet’s nebulosity is
      observed to contract rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with
      equal rapidity in its departure towards its aphelion. Was I not
      justifiable in supposing with M. Valz, that this apparent condensation of
      volume has its origin in the compression of the same ethereal medium I
      have spoken of before, and which is only denser in proportion to its
      solar vicinity? The lenticular-shaped phenomenon, also called the
      zodiacal light, was a matter worthy of attention. This radiance, so
      apparent in the tropics, and which cannot be mistaken for any meteoric
      lustre, extends from the horizon obliquely upward, and follows generally
      the direction of the sun’s equator. It appeared to me evidently in
      the nature of a rare atmosphere extending from the sun outward, beyond
      the orbit of Venus at least, and I believed indefinitely farther.(*2)
      Indeed, this medium I could not suppose confined to the path of the
      comet’s ellipse, or to the immediate neighborhood of the sun. It
      was easy, on the contrary, to imagine it pervading the entire regions of
      our planetary system, condensed into what we call atmosphere at the
      planets themselves, and perhaps at some of them modified by
      considerations, so to speak, purely geological.
    

      “Having adopted this view of the subject, I had little further hesitation.
      Granting that on my passage I should meet with atmosphere essentially the
      same as at the surface of the earth, I conceived that, by means of the
      very ingenious apparatus of M. Grimm, I should readily be enabled to
      condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of respiration. This
      would remove the chief obstacle in a journey to the moon. I had indeed
      spent some money and great labor in adapting the apparatus to the object
      intended, and confidently looked forward to its successful application, if
      I could manage to complete the voyage within any reasonable period. This
      brings me back to the rate at which it might be possible to travel.
    

      “It is true that balloons, in the first stage of their ascensions from the
      earth, are known to rise with a velocity comparatively moderate. Now, the
      power of elevation lies altogether in the superior lightness of the gas in
      the balloon compared with the atmospheric air; and, at first sight, it
      does not appear probable that, as the balloon acquires altitude, and
      consequently arrives successively in atmospheric strata of densities
      rapidly diminishing—I say, it does not appear at all reasonable
      that, in this its progress upwards, the original velocity should be
      accelerated. On the other hand, I was not aware that, in any recorded
      ascension, a diminution was apparent in the absolute rate of ascent;
      although such should have been the case, if on account of nothing else, on
      account of the escape of gas through balloons ill-constructed, and
      varnished with no better material than the ordinary varnish. It seemed,
      therefore, that the effect of such escape was only sufficient to
      counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power. I now considered
      that, provided in my passage I found the medium I had imagined, and
      provided that it should prove to be actually and essentially what we
      denominate atmospheric air, it could make comparatively little difference
      at what extreme state of rarefaction I should discover it—that is to
      say, in regard to my power of ascending—for the gas in the balloon
      would not only be itself subject to rarefaction partially similar (in
      proportion to the occurrence of which, I could suffer an escape of so much
      as would be requisite to prevent explosion), but, being what it was,
      would, at all events, continue specifically lighter than any compound
      whatever of mere nitrogen and oxygen. In the meantime, the force of
      gravitation would be constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares
      of the distances, and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, I
      should at length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the
      earth’s attraction would be superseded by that of the moon. In accordance
      with these ideas, I did not think it worth while to encumber myself with
      more provisions than would be sufficient for a period of forty days.
    

      “There was still, however, another difficulty, which occasioned me some
      little disquietude. It has been observed, that, in balloon ascensions to
      any considerable height, besides the pain attending respiration, great
      uneasiness is experienced about the head and body, often accompanied with
      bleeding at the nose, and other symptoms of an alarming kind, and growing
      more and more inconvenient in proportion to the altitude attained.(*3)
      This was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling. Was it not probable
      that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at least until
      terminated by death itself? I finally thought not. Their origin was to be
      looked for in the progressive removal of the customary atmospheric
      pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent distention of the
      superficial blood-vessels—not in any positive disorganization of the
      animal system, as in the case of difficulty in breathing, where the
      atmospheric density is chemically insufficient for the due renovation of
      blood in a ventricle of the heart. Unless for default of this renovation,
      I could see no reason, therefore, why life could not be sustained even in
      a vacuum; for the expansion and compression of chest, commonly called
      breathing, is action purely muscular, and the cause, not the effect, of
      respiration. In a word, I conceived that, as the body should become
      habituated to the want of atmospheric pressure, the sensations of pain
      would gradually diminish—and to endure them while they continued, I
      relied with confidence upon the iron hardihood of my constitution.
    

      “Thus, may it please your Excellencies, I have detailed some, though by no
      means all, the considerations which led me to form the project of a lunar
      voyage. I shall now proceed to lay before you the result of an attempt so
      apparently audacious in conception, and, at all events, so utterly
      unparalleled in the annals of mankind.
    

      “Having attained the altitude before mentioned, that is to say three miles
      and three-quarters, I threw out from the car a quantity of feathers, and
      found that I still ascended with sufficient rapidity; there was,
      therefore, no necessity for discharging any ballast. I was glad of this,
      for I wished to retain with me as much weight as I could carry, for
      reasons which will be explained in the sequel. I as yet suffered no bodily
      inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and feeling no pain whatever
      in the head. The cat was lying very demurely upon my coat, which I had
      taken off, and eyeing the pigeons with an air of nonchalance. These latter
      being tied by the leg, to prevent their escape, were busily employed in
      picking up some grains of rice scattered for them in the bottom of the
      car.
    

      “At twenty minutes past six o’clock, the barometer showed an elevation of
      26,400 feet, or five miles to a fraction. The prospect seemed unbounded.
      Indeed, it is very easily calculated by means of spherical geometry, what
      a great extent of the earth’s area I beheld. The convex surface of any
      segment of a sphere is, to the entire surface of the sphere itself, as the
      versed sine of the segment to the diameter of the sphere. Now, in my case,
      the versed sine—that is to say, the thickness of the segment beneath
      me—was about equal to my elevation, or the elevation of the point of
      sight above the surface. ‘As five miles, then, to eight thousand,’ would
      express the proportion of the earth’s area seen by me. In other words, I
      beheld as much as a sixteen-hundredth part of the whole surface of the
      globe. The sea appeared unruffled as a mirror, although, by means of the
      spy-glass, I could perceive it to be in a state of violent agitation. The
      ship was no longer visible, having drifted away, apparently to the
      eastward. I now began to experience, at intervals, severe pain in the
      head, especially about the ears—still, however, breathing with
      tolerable freedom. The cat and pigeons seemed to suffer no inconvenience
      whatsoever.