“At twenty minutes before seven, the balloon entered a long series of
      dense cloud, which put me to great trouble, by damaging my condensing
      apparatus and wetting me to the skin. This was, to be sure, a singular
      recontre, for I had not believed it possible that a cloud of this nature
      could be sustained at so great an elevation. I thought it best, however,
      to throw out two five-pound pieces of ballast, reserving still a weight of
      one hundred and sixty-five pounds. Upon so doing, I soon rose above the
      difficulty, and perceived immediately, that I had obtained a great
      increase in my rate of ascent. In a few seconds after my leaving the
      cloud, a flash of vivid lightning shot from one end of it to the other,
      and caused it to kindle up, throughout its vast extent, like a mass of
      ignited and glowing charcoal. This, it must be remembered, was in the
      broad light of day. No fancy may picture the sublimity which might have
      been exhibited by a similar phenomenon taking place amid the darkness of
      the night. Hell itself might have been found a fitting image. Even as it
      was, my hair stood on end, while I gazed afar down within the yawning
      abysses, letting imagination descend, as it were, and stalk about in the
      strange vaulted halls, and ruddy gulfs, and red ghastly chasms of the
      hideous and unfathomable fire. I had indeed made a narrow escape. Had the
      balloon remained a very short while longer within the cloud—that is
      to say—had not the inconvenience of getting wet, determined me to
      discharge the ballast, inevitable ruin would have been the consequence.
      Such perils, although little considered, are perhaps the greatest which
      must be encountered in balloons. I had by this time, however, attained too
      great an elevation to be any longer uneasy on this head.
    

      “I was now rising rapidly, and by seven o’clock the barometer indicated an
      altitude of no less than nine miles and a half. I began to find great
      difficulty in drawing my breath. My head, too, was excessively painful;
      and, having felt for some time a moisture about my cheeks, I at length
      discovered it to be blood, which was oozing quite fast from the drums of
      my ears. My eyes, also, gave me great uneasiness. Upon passing the hand
      over them they seemed to have protruded from their sockets in no
      inconsiderable degree; and all objects in the car, and even the balloon
      itself, appeared distorted to my vision. These symptoms were more than I
      had expected, and occasioned me some alarm. At this juncture, very
      imprudently, and without consideration, I threw out from the car three
      five-pound pieces of ballast. The accelerated rate of ascent thus
      obtained, carried me too rapidly, and without sufficient gradation, into a
      highly rarefied stratum of the atmosphere, and the result had nearly
      proved fatal to my expedition and to myself. I was suddenly seized with a
      spasm which lasted for more than five minutes, and even when this, in a
      measure, ceased, I could catch my breath only at long intervals, and in a
      gasping manner—bleeding all the while copiously at the nose and
      ears, and even slightly at the eyes. The pigeons appeared distressed in
      the extreme, and struggled to escape; while the cat mewed piteously, and,
      with her tongue hanging out of her mouth, staggered to and fro in the car
      as if under the influence of poison. I now too late discovered the great
      rashness of which I had been guilty in discharging the ballast, and my
      agitation was excessive. I anticipated nothing less than death, and death
      in a few minutes. The physical suffering I underwent contributed also to
      render me nearly incapable of making any exertion for the preservation of
      my life. I had, indeed, little power of reflection left, and the violence
      of the pain in my head seemed to be greatly on the increase. Thus I found
      that my senses would shortly give way altogether, and I had already
      clutched one of the valve ropes with the view of attempting a descent,
      when the recollection of the trick I had played the three creditors, and
      the possible consequences to myself, should I return, operated to deter me
      for the moment. I lay down in the bottom of the car, and endeavored to
      collect my faculties. In this I so far succeeded as to determine upon the
      experiment of losing blood. Having no lancet, however, I was constrained
      to perform the operation in the best manner I was able, and finally
      succeeded in opening a vein in my right arm, with the blade of my
      penknife. The blood had hardly commenced flowing when I experienced a
      sensible relief, and by the time I had lost about half a moderate basin
      full, most of the worst symptoms had abandoned me entirely. I nevertheless
      did not think it expedient to attempt getting on my feet immediately; but,
      having tied up my arm as well as I could, I lay still for about a quarter
      of an hour. At the end of this time I arose, and found myself freer from
      absolute pain of any kind than I had been during the last hour and a
      quarter of my ascension. The difficulty of breathing, however, was
      diminished in a very slight degree, and I found that it would soon be
      positively necessary to make use of my condenser. In the meantime, looking
      toward the cat, who was again snugly stowed away upon my coat, I
      discovered to my infinite surprise, that she had taken the opportunity of
      my indisposition to bring into light a litter of three little kittens.
      This was an addition to the number of passengers on my part altogether
      unexpected; but I was pleased at the occurrence. It would afford me a
      chance of bringing to a kind of test the truth of a surmise, which, more
      than anything else, had influenced me in attempting this ascension. I had
      imagined that the habitual endurance of the atmospheric pressure at the
      surface of the earth was the cause, or nearly so, of the pain attending
      animal existence at a distance above the surface. Should the kittens be
      found to suffer uneasiness in an equal degree with their mother, I must
      consider my theory in fault, but a failure to do so I should look upon as
      a strong confirmation of my idea.
    

      “By eight o’clock I had actually attained an elevation of seventeen miles
      above the surface of the earth. Thus it seemed to me evident that my rate
      of ascent was not only on the increase, but that the progression would
      have been apparent in a slight degree even had I not discharged the
      ballast which I did. The pains in my head and ears returned, at intervals,
      with violence, and I still continued to bleed occasionally at the nose;
      but, upon the whole, I suffered much less than might have been expected. I
      breathed, however, at every moment, with more and more difficulty, and
      each inhalation was attended with a troublesome spasmodic action of the
      chest. I now unpacked the condensing apparatus, and got it ready for
      immediate use.
    

      “The view of the earth, at this period of my ascension, was beautiful
      indeed. To the westward, the northward, and the southward, as far as I
      could see, lay a boundless sheet of apparently unruffled ocean, which
      every moment gained a deeper and a deeper tint of blue and began already
      to assume a slight appearance of convexity. At a vast distance to the
      eastward, although perfectly discernible, extended the islands of Great
      Britain, the entire Atlantic coasts of France and Spain, with a small
      portion of the northern part of the continent of Africa. Of individual
      edifices not a trace could be discovered, and the proudest cities of
      mankind had utterly faded away from the face of the earth. From the rock
      of Gibraltar, now dwindled into a dim speck, the dark Mediterranean sea,
      dotted with shining islands as the heaven is dotted with stars, spread
      itself out to the eastward as far as my vision extended, until its entire
      mass of waters seemed at length to tumble headlong over the abyss of the
      horizon, and I found myself listening on tiptoe for the echoes of the
      mighty cataract. Overhead, the sky was of a jetty black, and the stars
      were brilliantly visible.
    

      “The pigeons about this time seeming to undergo much suffering, I
      determined upon giving them their liberty. I first untied one of them, a
      beautiful gray-mottled pigeon, and placed him upon the rim of the
      wicker-work. He appeared extremely uneasy, looking anxiously around him,
      fluttering his wings, and making a loud cooing noise, but could not be
      persuaded to trust himself from off the car. I took him up at last, and
      threw him to about half a dozen yards from the balloon. He made, however,
      no attempt to descend as I had expected, but struggled with great
      vehemence to get back, uttering at the same time very shrill and piercing
      cries. He at length succeeded in regaining his former station on the rim,
      but had hardly done so when his head dropped upon his breast, and he fell
      dead within the car. The other one did not prove so unfortunate. To
      prevent his following the example of his companion, and accomplishing a
      return, I threw him downward with all my force, and was pleased to find
      him continue his descent, with great velocity, making use of his wings
      with ease, and in a perfectly natural manner. In a very short time he was
      out of sight, and I have no doubt he reached home in safety. Puss, who
      seemed in a great measure recovered from her illness, now made a hearty
      meal of the dead bird and then went to sleep with much apparent
      satisfaction. Her kittens were quite lively, and so far evinced not the
      slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever.
    

      “At a quarter-past eight, being no longer able to draw breath without the
      most intolerable pain, I proceeded forthwith to adjust around the car the
      apparatus belonging to the condenser. This apparatus will require some
      little explanation, and your Excellencies will please to bear in mind that
      my object, in the first place, was to surround myself and cat entirely
      with a barricade against the highly rarefied atmosphere in which I was
      existing, with the intention of introducing within this barricade, by
      means of my condenser, a quantity of this same atmosphere sufficiently
      condensed for the purposes of respiration. With this object in view I had
      prepared a very strong perfectly air-tight, but flexible gum-elastic bag.
      In this bag, which was of sufficient dimensions, the entire car was in a
      manner placed. That is to say, it (the bag) was drawn over the whole
      bottom of the car, up its sides, and so on, along the outside of the
      ropes, to the upper rim or hoop where the net-work is attached. Having
      pulled the bag up in this way, and formed a complete enclosure on all
      sides, and at bottom, it was now necessary to fasten up its top or mouth,
      by passing its material over the hoop of the net-work—in other
      words, between the net-work and the hoop. But if the net-work were
      separated from the hoop to admit this passage, what was to sustain the car
      in the meantime? Now the net-work was not permanently fastened to the
      hoop, but attached by a series of running loops or nooses. I therefore
      undid only a few of these loops at one time, leaving the car suspended by
      the remainder. Having thus inserted a portion of the cloth forming the
      upper part of the bag, I refastened the loops—not to the hoop, for
      that would have been impossible, since the cloth now intervened—but
      to a series of large buttons, affixed to the cloth itself, about three
      feet below the mouth of the bag, the intervals between the buttons having
      been made to correspond to the intervals between the loops. This done, a
      few more of the loops were unfastened from the rim, a farther portion of
      the cloth introduced, and the disengaged loops then connected with their
      proper buttons. In this way it was possible to insert the whole upper part
      of the bag between the net-work and the hoop. It is evident that the hoop
      would now drop down within the car, while the whole weight of the car
      itself, with all its contents, would be held up merely by the strength of
      the buttons. This, at first sight, would seem an inadequate dependence;
      but it was by no means so, for the buttons were not only very strong in
      themselves, but so close together that a very slight portion of the whole
      weight was supported by any one of them. Indeed, had the car and contents
      been three times heavier than they were, I should not have been at all
      uneasy. I now raised up the hoop again within the covering of gum-elastic,
      and propped it at nearly its former height by means of three light poles
      prepared for the occasion. This was done, of course, to keep the bag
      distended at the top, and to preserve the lower part of the net-work in
      its proper situation. All that now remained was to fasten up the mouth of
      the enclosure; and this was readily accomplished by gathering the folds of
      the material together, and twisting them up very tightly on the inside by
      means of a kind of stationary tourniquet.
    

      “In the sides of the covering thus adjusted round the car, had been
      inserted three circular panes of thick but clear glass, through which I
      could see without difficulty around me in every horizontal direction. In
      that portion of the cloth forming the bottom, was likewise, a fourth
      window, of the same kind, and corresponding with a small aperture in the
      floor of the car itself. This enabled me to see perpendicularly down, but
      having found it impossible to place any similar contrivance overhead, on
      account of the peculiar manner of closing up the opening there, and the
      consequent wrinkles in the cloth, I could expect to see no objects
      situated directly in my zenith. This, of course, was a matter of little
      consequence; for had I even been able to place a window at top, the
      balloon itself would have prevented my making any use of it.
    