      “About a foot below one of the side windows was a circular opening, eight
      inches in diameter, and fitted with a brass rim adapted in its inner edge
      to the windings of a screw. In this rim was screwed the large tube of the
      condenser, the body of the machine being, of course, within the chamber of
      gum-elastic. Through this tube a quantity of the rare atmosphere
      circumjacent being drawn by means of a vacuum created in the body of the
      machine, was thence discharged, in a state of condensation, to mingle with
      the thin air already in the chamber. This operation being repeated several
      times, at length filled the chamber with atmosphere proper for all the
      purposes of respiration. But in so confined a space it would, in a short
      time, necessarily become foul, and unfit for use from frequent contact
      with the lungs. It was then ejected by a small valve at the bottom of the
      car—the dense air readily sinking into the thinner atmosphere below.
      To avoid the inconvenience of making a total vacuum at any moment within
      the chamber, this purification was never accomplished all at once, but in
      a gradual manner—the valve being opened only for a few seconds, then
      closed again, until one or two strokes from the pump of the condenser had
      supplied the place of the atmosphere ejected. For the sake of experiment I
      had put the cat and kittens in a small basket, and suspended it outside
      the car to a button at the bottom, close by the valve, through which I
      could feed them at any moment when necessary. I did this at some little
      risk, and before closing the mouth of the chamber, by reaching under the
      car with one of the poles before mentioned to which a hook had been
      attached.
    

      “By the time I had fully completed these arrangements and filled the
      chamber as explained, it wanted only ten minutes of nine o’clock. During
      the whole period of my being thus employed, I endured the most terrible
      distress from difficulty of respiration, and bitterly did I repent the
      negligence or rather fool-hardiness, of which I had been guilty, of
      putting off to the last moment a matter of so much importance. But having
      at length accomplished it, I soon began to reap the benefit of my
      invention. Once again I breathed with perfect freedom and ease—and
      indeed why should I not? I was also agreeably surprised to find myself, in
      a great measure, relieved from the violent pains which had hitherto
      tormented me. A slight headache, accompanied with a sensation of fulness
      or distention about the wrists, the ankles, and the throat, was nearly all
      of which I had now to complain. Thus it seemed evident that a greater part
      of the uneasiness attending the removal of atmospheric pressure had
      actually worn off, as I had expected, and that much of the pain endured
      for the last two hours should have been attributed altogether to the
      effects of a deficient respiration.
    

      “At twenty minutes before nine o’clock—that is to say, a short time
      prior to my closing up the mouth of the chamber, the mercury attained its
      limit, or ran down, in the barometer, which, as I mentioned before, was
      one of an extended construction. It then indicated an altitude on my part
      of 132,000 feet, or five-and-twenty miles, and I consequently surveyed at
      that time an extent of the earth’s area amounting to no less than the
      three hundred-and-twentieth part of its entire superficies. At nine
      o’clock I had again lost sight of land to the eastward, but not before I
      became aware that the balloon was drifting rapidly to the N. N. W. The
      convexity of the ocean beneath me was very evident indeed, although my
      view was often interrupted by the masses of cloud which floated to and
      fro. I observed now that even the lightest vapors never rose to more than
      ten miles above the level of the sea.
    

      “At half past nine I tried the experiment of throwing out a handful of
      feathers through the valve. They did not float as I had expected; but
      dropped down perpendicularly, like a bullet, en masse, and with the
      greatest velocity—being out of sight in a very few seconds. I did
      not at first know what to make of this extraordinary phenomenon; not being
      able to believe that my rate of ascent had, of a sudden, met with so
      prodigious an acceleration. But it soon occurred to me that the atmosphere
      was now far too rare to sustain even the feathers; that they actually
      fell, as they appeared to do, with great rapidity; and that I had been
      surprised by the united velocities of their descent and my own elevation.
    

      “By ten o’clock I found that I had very little to occupy my immediate
      attention. Affairs went swimmingly, and I believed the balloon to be going
      upward with a speed increasing momently although I had no longer any means
      of ascertaining the progression of the increase. I suffered no pain or
      uneasiness of any kind, and enjoyed better spirits than I had at any
      period since my departure from Rotterdam, busying myself now in examining
      the state of my various apparatus, and now in regenerating the atmosphere
      within the chamber. This latter point I determined to attend to at regular
      intervals of forty minutes, more on account of the preservation of my
      health, than from so frequent a renovation being absolutely necessary. In
      the meanwhile I could not help making anticipations. Fancy revelled in the
      wild and dreamy regions of the moon. Imagination, feeling herself for once
      unshackled, roamed at will among the ever-changing wonders of a shadowy
      and unstable land. Now there were hoary and time-honored forests, and
      craggy precipices, and waterfalls tumbling with a loud noise into abysses
      without a bottom. Then I came suddenly into still noonday solitudes, where
      no wind of heaven ever intruded, and where vast meadows of poppies, and
      slender, lily-looking flowers spread themselves out a weary distance, all
      silent and motionless forever. Then again I journeyed far down away into
      another country where it was all one dim and vague lake, with a boundary
      line of clouds. And out of this melancholy water arose a forest of tall
      eastern trees, like a wilderness of dreams. And I have in mind that the
      shadows of the trees which fell upon the lake remained not on the surface
      where they fell, but sunk slowly and steadily down, and commingled with
      the waves, while from the trunks of the trees other shadows were
      continually coming out, and taking the place of their brothers thus
      entombed. “This then,” I said thoughtfully, “is the very reason why the
      waters of this lake grow blacker with age, and more melancholy as the
      hours run on.” But fancies such as these were not the sole possessors of
      my brain. Horrors of a nature most stern and most appalling would too
      frequently obtrude themselves upon my mind, and shake the innermost depths
      of my soul with the bare supposition of their possibility. Yet I would not
      suffer my thoughts for any length of time to dwell upon these latter
      speculations, rightly judging the real and palpable dangers of the voyage
      sufficient for my undivided attention.
    

      “At five o’clock, p.m., being engaged in regenerating the atmosphere
      within the chamber, I took that opportunity of observing the cat and
      kittens through the valve. The cat herself appeared to suffer again very
      much, and I had no hesitation in attributing her uneasiness chiefly to a
      difficulty in breathing; but my experiment with the kittens had resulted
      very strangely. I had expected, of course, to see them betray a sense of
      pain, although in a less degree than their mother, and this would have
      been sufficient to confirm my opinion concerning the habitual endurance of
      atmospheric pressure. But I was not prepared to find them, upon close
      examination, evidently enjoying a high degree of health, breathing with
      the greatest ease and perfect regularity, and evincing not the slightest
      sign of any uneasiness whatever. I could only account for all this by
      extending my theory, and supposing that the highly rarefied atmosphere
      around might perhaps not be, as I had taken for granted, chemically
      insufficient for the purposes of life, and that a person born in such a
      medium might, possibly, be unaware of any inconvenience attending its
      inhalation, while, upon removal to the denser strata near the earth, he
      might endure tortures of a similar nature to those I had so lately
      experienced. It has since been to me a matter of deep regret that an
      awkward accident, at this time, occasioned me the loss of my little family
      of cats, and deprived me of the insight into this matter which a continued
      experiment might have afforded. In passing my hand through the valve, with
      a cup of water for the old puss, the sleeves of my shirt became entangled
      in the loop which sustained the basket, and thus, in a moment, loosened it
      from the bottom. Had the whole actually vanished into air, it could not
      have shot from my sight in a more abrupt and instantaneous manner.
      Positively, there could not have intervened the tenth part of a second
      between the disengagement of the basket and its absolute and total
      disappearance with all that it contained. My good wishes followed it to
      the earth, but of course, I had no hope that either cat or kittens would
      ever live to tell the tale of their misfortune.
    

      “At six o’clock, I perceived a great portion of the earth’s visible area
      to the eastward involved in thick shadow, which continued to advance with
      great rapidity, until, at five minutes before seven, the whole surface in
      view was enveloped in the darkness of night. It was not, however, until
      long after this time that the rays of the setting sun ceased to illumine
      the balloon; and this circumstance, although of course fully anticipated,
      did not fail to give me an infinite deal of pleasure. It was evident that,
      in the morning, I should behold the rising luminary many hours at least
      before the citizens of Rotterdam, in spite of their situation so much
      farther to the eastward, and thus, day after day, in proportion to the
      height ascended, would I enjoy the light of the sun for a longer and a
      longer period. I now determined to keep a journal of my passage, reckoning
      the days from one to twenty-four hours continuously, without taking into
      consideration the intervals of darkness.
    

      “At ten o’clock, feeling sleepy, I determined to lie down for the rest of
      the night; but here a difficulty presented itself, which, obvious as it
      may appear, had escaped my attention up to the very moment of which I am
      now speaking. If I went to sleep as I proposed, how could the atmosphere
      in the chamber be regenerated in the interim? To breathe it for more than
      an hour, at the farthest, would be a matter of impossibility, or, if even
      this term could be extended to an hour and a quarter, the most ruinous
      consequences might ensue. The consideration of this dilemma gave me no
      little disquietude; and it will hardly be believed, that, after the
      dangers I had undergone, I should look upon this business in so serious a
      light, as to give up all hope of accomplishing my ultimate design, and
      finally make up my mind to the necessity of a descent. But this hesitation
      was only momentary. I reflected that man is the veriest slave of custom,
      and that many points in the routine of his existence are deemed
      essentially important, which are only so at all by his having rendered
      them habitual. It was very certain that I could not do without sleep; but
      I might easily bring myself to feel no inconvenience from being awakened
      at intervals of an hour during the whole period of my repose. It would
      require but five minutes at most to regenerate the atmosphere in the
      fullest manner, and the only real difficulty was to contrive a method of
      arousing myself at the proper moment for so doing. But this was a question
      which, I am willing to confess, occasioned me no little trouble in its
      solution. To be sure, I had heard of the student who, to prevent his
      falling asleep over his books, held in one hand a ball of copper, the din
      of whose descent into a basin of the same metal on the floor beside his
      chair, served effectually to startle him up, if, at any moment, he should
      be overcome with drowsiness. My own case, however, was very different
      indeed, and left me no room for any similar idea; for I did not wish to
      keep awake, but to be aroused from slumber at regular intervals of time. I
      at length hit upon the following expedient, which, simple as it may seem,
      was hailed by me, at the moment of discovery, as an invention fully equal
      to that of the telescope, the steam-engine, or the art of printing itself.