THE UNPARALLELED ADVENTURES OF ONE HANS PFAAL (*1)

      By late accounts from Rotterdam, that city seems to be in a high state of
      philosophical excitement. Indeed, phenomena have there occurred of a
      nature so completely unexpected—so entirely novel—so utterly
      at variance with preconceived opinions—as to leave no doubt on my
      mind that long ere this all Europe is in an uproar, all physics in a
      ferment, all reason and astronomy together by the ears.
    

      It appears that on the—— day of—— (I am not
      positive about the date), a vast crowd of people, for purposes not
      specifically mentioned, were assembled in the great square of the Exchange
      in the well-conditioned city of Rotterdam. The day was warm—unusually
      so for the season—there was hardly a breath of air stirring; and the
      multitude were in no bad humor at being now and then besprinkled with
      friendly showers of momentary duration, that fell from large white masses
      of cloud which chequered in a fitful manner the blue vault of the
      firmament. Nevertheless, about noon, a slight but remarkable agitation
      became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues
      succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were upturned
      toward the heavens, ten thousand pipes descended simultaneously from the
      corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which could be compared to
      nothing but the roaring of Niagara, resounded long, loudly, and furiously,
      through all the environs of Rotterdam.
    

      The origin of this hubbub soon became sufficiently evident. From behind
      the huge bulk of one of those sharply-defined masses of cloud already
      mentioned, was seen slowly to emerge into an open area of blue space, a
      queer, heterogeneous, but apparently solid substance, so oddly shaped, so
      whimsically put together, as not to be in any manner comprehended, and
      never to be sufficiently admired, by the host of sturdy burghers who stood
      open-mouthed below. What could it be? In the name of all the vrows and
      devils in Rotterdam, what could it possibly portend? No one knew, no one
      could imagine; no one—not even the burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von
      Underduk—had the slightest clew by which to unravel the mystery; so,
      as nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a man replaced his
      pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right eye
      towards the phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted
      significantly—then waddled back, grunted, paused, and finally—puffed
      again.
    

      In the meantime, however, lower and still lower toward the goodly city,
      came the object of so much curiosity, and the cause of so much smoke. In a
      very few minutes it arrived near enough to be accurately discerned. It
      appeared to be—yes! it was undoubtedly a species of balloon; but
      surely no such balloon had ever been seen in Rotterdam before. For who,
      let me ask, ever heard of a balloon manufactured entirely of dirty
      newspapers? No man in Holland certainly; yet here, under the very noses of
      the people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical
      thing in question, and composed, I have it on the best authority, of the
      precise material which no one had ever before known to be used for a
      similar purpose. It was an egregious insult to the good sense of the
      burghers of Rotterdam. As to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even
      still more reprehensible. Being little or nothing better than a huge
      foolscap turned upside down. And this similitude was regarded as by no
      means lessened when, upon nearer inspection, there was perceived a large
      tassel depending from its apex, and, around the upper rim or base of the
      cone, a circle of little instruments, resembling sheep-bells, which kept
      up a continual tinkling to the tune of Betty Martin. But still worse.
      Suspended by blue ribbons to the end of this fantastic machine, there
      hung, by way of car, an enormous drab beaver hat, with a brim
      superlatively broad, and a hemispherical crown with a black band and a
      silver buckle. It is, however, somewhat remarkable that many citizens of
      Rotterdam swore to having seen the same hat repeatedly before; and indeed
      the whole assembly seemed to regard it with eyes of familiarity; while the
      vrow Grettel Pfaall, upon sight of it, uttered an exclamation of joyful
      surprise, and declared it to be the identical hat of her good man himself.
      Now this was a circumstance the more to be observed, as Pfaall, with three
      companions, had actually disappeared from Rotterdam about five years
      before, in a very sudden and unaccountable manner, and up to the date of
      this narrative all attempts had failed of obtaining any intelligence
      concerning them whatsoever. To be sure, some bones which were thought to
      be human, mixed up with a quantity of odd-looking rubbish, had been lately
      discovered in a retired situation to the east of Rotterdam, and some
      people went so far as to imagine that in this spot a foul murder had been
      committed, and that the sufferers were in all probability Hans Pfaall and
      his associates. But to return.
    

      The balloon (for such no doubt it was) had now descended to within a
      hundred feet of the earth, allowing the crowd below a sufficiently
      distinct view of the person of its occupant. This was in truth a very
      droll little somebody. He could not have been more than two feet in
      height; but this altitude, little as it was, would have been sufficient
      to destroy his equilibrium, and tilt him over the edge of his tiny car,
      but for the intervention of a circular rim reaching as high as the
      breast, and rigged on to the cords of the balloon. The body of the little
      man was more than proportionately broad, giving to his entire figure a
      rotundity highly absurd. His feet, of course, could not be seen at all,
      although a horny substance of suspicious nature was occasionally
      protruded through a rent in the bottom of the car, or to speak more
      properly, in the top of the hat. His hands were enormously large. His
      hair was extremely gray, and collected into a queue behind. His nose was
      prodigiously long, crooked, and inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant,
      and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were broad,
      puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a
      semblance to be discovered upon any portion of his head. This odd little
      gentleman was dressed in a loose surtout of sky-blue satin, with tight
      breeches to match, fastened with silver buckles at the knees. His vest
      was of some bright yellow material; a white taffety cap was set jauntily
      on one side of his head; and, to complete his equipment, a blood-red silk
      handkerchief enveloped his throat, and fell down, in a dainty manner,
      upon his bosom, in a fantastic bow-knot of super-eminent dimensions.
    

      Having descended, as I said before, to about one hundred feet from the
      surface of the earth, the little old gentleman was suddenly seized with a
      fit of trepidation, and appeared disinclined to make any nearer approach
      to terra firma. Throwing out, therefore, a quantity of sand from a canvas
      bag, which, he lifted with great difficulty, he became stationary in an
      instant. He then proceeded, in a hurried and agitated manner, to extract
      from a side-pocket in his surtout a large morocco pocket-book. This he
      poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with an air of extreme
      surprise, and was evidently astonished at its weight. He at length opened
      it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed with red sealing-wax and
      tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely at the feet of the
      burgomaster, Superbus Von Underduk. His Excellency stooped to take it up.
      But the aeronaut, still greatly discomposed, and having apparently no
      farther business to detain him in Rotterdam, began at this moment to make
      busy preparations for departure; and it being necessary to discharge a
      portion of ballast to enable him to reascend, the half dozen bags which he
      threw out, one after another, without taking the trouble to empty their
      contents, tumbled, every one of them, most unfortunately upon the back of
      the burgomaster, and rolled him over and over no less than one-and-twenty
      times, in the face of every man in Rotterdam. It is not to be supposed,
      however, that the great Underduk suffered this impertinence on the part of
      the little old man to pass off with impunity. It is said, on the contrary,
      that during each and every one of his one-and twenty circumvolutions he
      emitted no less than one-and-twenty distinct and furious whiffs from his
      pipe, to which he held fast the whole time with all his might, and to
      which he intends holding fast until the day of his death.
    

      In the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away above
      the city, at length drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that from
      which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost forever to the wondering
      eyes of the good citizens of Rotterdam. All attention was now directed to
      the letter, the descent of which, and the consequences attending
      thereupon, had proved so fatally subversive of both person and personal
      dignity to his Excellency, the illustrious Burgomaster Mynheer Superbus
      Von Underduk. That functionary, however, had not failed, during his
      circumgyratory movements, to bestow a thought upon the important subject
      of securing the packet in question, which was seen, upon inspection, to
      have fallen into the most proper hands, being actually addressed to
      himself and Professor Rub-a-dub, in their official capacities of President
      and Vice-President of the Rotterdam College of Astronomy. It was
      accordingly opened by those dignitaries upon the spot, and found to
      contain the following extraordinary, and indeed very serious,
      communication:
    

      “To their Excellencies Von Underduk and Rub-a-dub, President and
      Vice-President of the States’ College of Astronomers, in the city
      of Rotterdam.
    

      “Your Excellencies may perhaps be able to remember an humble artizan, by
      name Hans Pfaall, and by occupation a mender of bellows, who, with three
      others, disappeared from Rotterdam, about five years ago, in a manner
      which must have been considered by all parties at once sudden, and
      extremely unaccountable. If, however, it so please your Excellencies, I,
      the writer of this communication, am the identical Hans Pfaall himself. It
      is well known to most of my fellow citizens, that for the period of forty
      years I continued to occupy the little square brick building, at the head
      of the alley called Sauerkraut, in which I resided at the time of my
      disappearance. My ancestors have also resided therein time out of mind—they,
      as well as myself, steadily following the respectable and indeed lucrative
      profession of mending of bellows. For, to speak the truth, until of late
      years, that the heads of all the people have been set agog with politics,
      no better business than my own could an honest citizen of Rotterdam either
      desire or deserve. Credit was good, employment was never wanting, and on
      all hands there was no lack of either money or good-will. But, as I was
      saying, we soon began to feel the effects of liberty and long speeches,
      and radicalism, and all that sort of thing. People who were formerly, the
      very best customers in the world, had now not a moment of time to think of
      us at all. They had, so they said, as much as they could do to read about
      the revolutions, and keep up with the march of intellect and the spirit of
      the age. If a fire wanted fanning, it could readily be fanned with a
      newspaper, and as the government grew weaker, I have no doubt that leather
      and iron acquired durability in proportion, for, in a very short time,
      there was not a pair of bellows in all Rotterdam that ever stood in need
      of a stitch or required the assistance of a hammer. This was a state of
      things not to be endured. I soon grew as poor as a rat, and, having a wife
      and children to provide for, my burdens at length became intolerable, and
      I spent hour after hour in reflecting upon the most convenient method of
      putting an end to my life. Duns, in the meantime, left me little leisure
      for contemplation. My house was literally besieged from morning till
      night, so that I began to rave, and foam, and fret like a caged tiger
      against the bars of his enclosure. There were three fellows in particular
      who worried me beyond endurance, keeping watch continually about my door,
      and threatening me with the law. Upon these three I internally vowed the
      bitterest revenge, if ever I should be so happy as to get them within my
      clutches; and I believe nothing in the world but the pleasure of this
      anticipation prevented me from putting my plan of suicide into immediate
      execution, by blowing my brains out with a blunderbuss. I thought it best,
      however, to dissemble my wrath, and to treat them with promises and fair
      words, until, by some good turn of fate, an opportunity of vengeance
      should be afforded me.
    

      “One day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than
      usually dejected, I continued for a long time to wander about the most
      obscure streets without object whatever, until at length I chanced to
      stumble against the corner of a bookseller’s stall. Seeing a chair close
      at hand, for the use of customers, I threw myself doggedly into it, and,
      hardly knowing why, opened the pages of the first volume which came within
      my reach. It proved to be a small pamphlet treatise on Speculative
      Astronomy, written either by Professor Encke of Berlin or by a Frenchman
      of somewhat similar name. I had some little tincture of information on
      matters of this nature, and soon became more and more absorbed in the
      contents of the book, reading it actually through twice before I awoke to
      a recollection of what was passing around me. By this time it began to
      grow dark, and I directed my steps toward home. But the treatise had made
      an indelible impression on my mind, and, as I sauntered along the dusky
      streets, I revolved carefully over in my memory the wild and sometimes
      unintelligible reasonings of the writer. There are some particular
      passages which affected my imagination in a powerful and extraordinary
      manner. The longer I meditated upon these the more intense grew the
      interest which had been excited within me. The limited nature of my
      education in general, and more especially my ignorance on subjects
      connected with natural philosophy, so far from rendering me diffident of
      my own ability to comprehend what I had read, or inducing me to mistrust
      the many vague notions which had arisen in consequence, merely served as a
      farther stimulus to imagination; and I was vain enough, or perhaps
      reasonable enough, to doubt whether those crude ideas which, arising in
      ill-regulated minds, have all the appearance, may not often in effect
      possess all the force, the reality, and other inherent properties, of
      instinct or intuition; whether, to proceed a step farther, profundity
      itself might not, in matters of a purely speculative nature, be detected
      as a legitimate source of falsity and error. In other words, I believed,
      and still do believe, that truth, is frequently of its own essence,
      superficial, and that, in many cases, the depth lies more in the abysses
      where we seek her, than in the actual situations wherein she may be found.
      Nature herself seemed to afford me corroboration of these ideas. In the
      contemplation of the heavenly bodies it struck me forcibly that I could
      not distinguish a star with nearly as much precision, when I gazed on it
      with earnest, direct and undeviating attention, as when I suffered my eye
      only to glance in its vicinity alone. I was not, of course, at that time
      aware that this apparent paradox was occasioned by the center of the
      visual area being less susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the
      exterior portions of the retina. This knowledge, and some of another kind,
      came afterwards in the course of an eventful five years, during which I
      have dropped the prejudices of my former humble situation in life, and
      forgotten the bellows-mender in far different occupations. But at the
      epoch of which I speak, the analogy which a casual observation of a star
      offered to the conclusions I had already drawn, struck me with the force
      of positive conformation, and I then finally made up my mind to the course
      which I afterwards pursued.
    

      “It was late when I reached home, and I went immediately to bed. My mind,
      however, was too much occupied to sleep, and I lay the whole night buried
      in meditation. Arising early in the morning, and contriving again to
      escape the vigilance of my creditors, I repaired eagerly to the
      bookseller’s stall, and laid out what little ready money I possessed, in
      the purchase of some volumes of Mechanics and Practical Astronomy. Having
      arrived at home safely with these, I devoted every spare moment to their
      perusal, and soon made such proficiency in studies of this nature as I
      thought sufficient for the execution of my plan. In the intervals of this
      period, I made every endeavor to conciliate the three creditors who had
      given me so much annoyance. In this I finally succeeded—partly by
      selling enough of my household furniture to satisfy a moiety of their
      claim, and partly by a promise of paying the balance upon completion of a
      little project which I told them I had in view, and for assistance in
      which I solicited their services. By these means—for they were
      ignorant men—I found little difficulty in gaining them over to my
      purpose.
    

      “Matters being thus arranged, I contrived, by the aid of my wife and with
      the greatest secrecy and caution, to dispose of what property I had
      remaining, and to borrow, in small sums, under various pretences, and
      without paying any attention to my future means of repayment, no
      inconsiderable quantity of ready money. With the means thus accruing I
      proceeded to procure at intervals, cambric muslin, very fine, in pieces of
      twelve yards each; twine; a lot of the varnish of caoutchouc; a large and
      deep basket of wicker-work, made to order; and several other articles
      necessary in the construction and equipment of a balloon of extraordinary
      dimensions. This I directed my wife to make up as soon as possible, and
      gave her all requisite information as to the particular method of
      proceeding. In the meantime I worked up the twine into a net-work of
      sufficient dimensions; rigged it with a hoop and the necessary cords;
      bought a quadrant, a compass, a spy-glass, a common barometer with some
      important modifications, and two astronomical instruments not so generally
      known. I then took opportunities of conveying by night, to a retired
      situation east of Rotterdam, five iron-bound casks, to contain about fifty
      gallons each, and one of a larger size; six tinned ware tubes, three
      inches in diameter, properly shaped, and ten feet in length; a quantity of
      a particular metallic substance, or semi-metal, which I shall not name,
      and a dozen demijohns of a very common acid. The gas to be formed from
      these latter materials is a gas never yet generated by any other person
      than myself—or at least never applied to any similar purpose. The
      secret I would make no difficulty in disclosing, but that it of right
      belongs to a citizen of Nantz, in France, by whom it was conditionally
      communicated to myself. The same individual submitted to me, without being
      at all aware of my intentions, a method of constructing balloons from the
      membrane of a certain animal, through which substance any escape of gas
      was nearly an impossibility. I found it, however, altogether too
      expensive, and was not sure, upon the whole, whether cambric muslin with a
      coating of gum caoutchouc, was not equally as good. I mention this
      circumstance, because I think it probable that hereafter the individual in
      question may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material I
      have spoken of, and I do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very
      singular invention.
    

      “On the spot which I intended each of the smaller casks to occupy
      respectively during the inflation of the balloon, I privately dug a hole
      two feet deep; the holes forming in this manner a circle twenty-five feet
      in diameter. In the centre of this circle, being the station designed for
      the large cask, I also dug a hole three feet in depth. In each of the five
      smaller holes, I deposited a canister containing fifty pounds, and in the
      larger one a keg holding one hundred and fifty pounds, of cannon powder.
      These—the keg and canisters—I connected in a proper manner
      with covered trains; and having let into one of the canisters the end of
      about four feet of slow match, I covered up the hole, and placed the cask
      over it, leaving the other end of the match protruding about an inch, and
      barely visible beyond the cask. I then filled up the remaining holes, and
      placed the barrels over them in their destined situation.
    

      “Besides the articles above enumerated, I conveyed to the depot, and there
      secreted, one of M. Grimm’s improvements upon the apparatus for
      condensation of the atmospheric air. I found this machine, however, to
      require considerable alteration before it could be adapted to the purposes
      to which I intended making it applicable. But, with severe labor and
      unremitting perseverance, I at length met with entire success in all my
      preparations. My balloon was soon completed. It would contain more than
      forty thousand cubic feet of gas; would take me up easily, I calculated,
      with all my implements, and, if I managed rightly, with one hundred and
      seventy-five pounds of ballast into the bargain. It had received three
      coats of varnish, and I found the cambric muslin to answer all the
      purposes of silk itself, quite as strong and a good deal less expensive.
    

      “Everything being now ready, I exacted from my wife an oath of secrecy in
      relation to all my actions from the day of my first visit to the
      bookseller’s stall; and promising, on my part, to return as soon as
      circumstances would permit, I gave her what little money I had left, and
      bade her farewell. Indeed I had no fear on her account. She was what
      people call a notable woman, and could manage matters in the world without
      my assistance. I believe, to tell the truth, she always looked upon me as
      an idle boy, a mere make-weight, good for nothing but building castles in
      the air, and was rather glad to get rid of me. It was a dark night when I
      bade her good-bye, and taking with me, as aides-de-camp, the three
      creditors who had given me so much trouble, we carried the balloon, with
      the car and accoutrements, by a roundabout way, to the station where the
      other articles were deposited. We there found them all unmolested, and I
      proceeded immediately to business.
    

      “It was the first of April. The night, as I said before, was dark; there
      was not a star to be seen; and a drizzling rain, falling at intervals,
      rendered us very uncomfortable. But my chief anxiety was concerning the
      balloon, which, in spite of the varnish with which it was defended, began
      to grow rather heavy with the moisture; the powder also was liable to
      damage. I therefore kept my three duns working with great diligence,
      pounding down ice around the central cask, and stirring the acid in the
      others. They did not cease, however, importuning me with questions as to
      what I intended to do with all this apparatus, and expressed much
      dissatisfaction at the terrible labor I made them undergo. They could not
      perceive, so they said, what good was likely to result from their getting
      wet to the skin, merely to take a part in such horrible incantations. I
      began to get uneasy, and worked away with all my might, for I verily
      believe the idiots supposed that I had entered into a compact with the
      devil, and that, in short, what I was now doing was nothing better than it
      should be. I was, therefore, in great fear of their leaving me altogether.
      I contrived, however, to pacify them by promises of payment of all scores
      in full, as soon as I could bring the present business to a termination.
      To these speeches they gave, of course, their own interpretation;
      fancying, no doubt, that at all events I should come into possession of
      vast quantities of ready money; and provided I paid them all I owed, and a
      trifle more, in consideration of their services, I dare say they cared
      very little what became of either my soul or my carcass.