      “April 11th. Found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of the
      earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first time, in
      that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being full. It
      now required long and excessive labor to condense within the chamber
      sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life.
    

      “April 12th. A singular alteration took place in regard to the
      direction of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the
      most unequivocal delight. Having reached, in its former course, about the
      twentieth parallel of southern latitude, it turned off suddenly, at an
      acute angle, to the eastward, and thus proceeded throughout the day,
      keeping nearly, if not altogether, in the exact plane of the lunar
      ellipse. What was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in the
      car was a consequence of this change of route—a vacillation which
      prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours.
    

      “April 13th. Was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the
      loud, crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth. Thought long upon
      the subject, but was unable to form any satisfactory conclusion. Great
      decrease in the earth’s apparent diameter, which now subtended from
      the balloon an angle of very little more than twenty-five degrees. The
      moon could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith. I still
      continued in the plane of the ellipse, but made little progress to the
      eastward.
    

      “April 14th. Extremely rapid decrease in the diameter of the earth. To-day
      I became strongly impressed with the idea, that the balloon was now
      actually running up the line of apsides to the point of perigee—in
      other words, holding the direct course which would bring it immediately to
      the moon in that part of its orbit the nearest to the earth. The moon
      itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view. Great
      and long-continued labor necessary for the condensation of the atmosphere.
    

      “April 15th. Not even the outlines of continents and seas could now be
      traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness. About twelve
      o’clock I became aware, for the third time, of that appalling sound which
      had so astonished me before. It now, however, continued for some moments,
      and gathered intensity as it continued. At length, while, stupefied and
      terror-stricken, I stood in expectation of I knew not what hideous
      destruction, the car vibrated with excessive violence, and a gigantic and
      flaming mass of some material which I could not distinguish, came with a
      voice of a thousand thunders, roaring and booming by the balloon. When my
      fears and astonishment had in some degree subsided, I had little
      difficulty in supposing it to be some mighty volcanic fragment ejected
      from that world to which I was so rapidly approaching, and, in all
      probability, one of that singular class of substances occasionally picked
      up on the earth, and termed meteoric stones for want of a better
      appellation.
    

      “April 16th. To-day, looking upward as well as I could, through each of
      the side windows alternately, I beheld, to my great delight, a very small
      portion of the moon’s disk protruding, as it were, on all sides beyond the
      huge circumference of the balloon. My agitation was extreme; for I had now
      little doubt of soon reaching the end of my perilous voyage. Indeed, the
      labor now required by the condenser had increased to a most oppressive
      degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from exertion. Sleep was a
      matter nearly out of the question. I became quite ill, and my frame
      trembled with exhaustion. It was impossible that human nature could endure
      this state of intense suffering much longer. During the now brief interval
      of darkness a meteoric stone again passed in my vicinity, and the
      frequency of these phenomena began to occasion me much apprehension.
    

      “April 17th. This morning proved an epoch in my voyage. It will be
      remembered that, on the thirteenth, the earth subtended an angular
      breadth of twenty-five degrees. On the fourteenth this had greatly
      diminished; on the fifteenth a still more remarkable decrease was
      observable; and, on retiring on the night of the sixteenth, I had noticed
      an angle of no more than about seven degrees and fifteen minutes. What,
      therefore, must have been my amazement, on awakening from a brief and
      disturbed slumber, on the morning of this day, the seventeenth, at
      finding the surface beneath me so suddenly and wonderfully augmented in
      volume, as to subtend no less than thirty-nine degrees in apparent
      angular diameter! I was thunderstruck! No words can give any adequate
      idea of the extreme, the absolute horror and astonishment, with which I
      was seized possessed, and altogether overwhelmed. My knees tottered
      beneath me—my teeth chattered—my hair started up on end.
      ‘The balloon, then, had actually burst!’ These were the first
      tumultuous ideas that hurried through my mind: ‘The balloon had
      positively burst!—I was falling—falling with the most
      impetuous, the most unparalleled velocity! To judge by the immense
      distance already so quickly passed over, it could not be more than ten
      minutes, at the farthest, before I should meet the surface of the earth,
      and be hurled into annihilation!’ But at length reflection came to
      my relief. I paused; I considered; and I began to doubt. The matter was
      impossible. I could not in any reason have so rapidly come down. Besides,
      although I was evidently approaching the surface below me, it was with a
      speed by no means commensurate with the velocity I had at first so
      horribly conceived. This consideration served to calm the perturbation of
      my mind, and I finally succeeded in regarding the phenomenon in its
      proper point of view. In fact, amazement must have fairly deprived me of
      my senses, when I could not see the vast difference, in appearance,
      between the surface below me, and the surface of my mother earth. The
      latter was indeed over my head, and completely hidden by the balloon,
      while the moon—the moon itself in all its glory—lay beneath
      me, and at my feet.
    