“April 19th. This morning, to my great joy, about nine o’clock, the
      surface of the moon being frightfully near, and my apprehensions excited
      to the utmost, the pump of my condenser at length gave evident tokens of
      an alteration in the atmosphere. By ten, I had reason to believe its
      density considerably increased. By eleven, very little labor was necessary
      at the apparatus; and at twelve o’clock, with some hesitation, I ventured
      to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience from having done
      so, I finally threw open the gum-elastic chamber, and unrigged it from
      around the car. As might have been expected, spasms and violent headache
      were the immediate consequences of an experiment so precipitate and full
      of danger. But these and other difficulties attending respiration, as they
      were by no means so great as to put me in peril of my life, I determined
      to endure as I best could, in consideration of my leaving them behind me
      momently in my approach to the denser strata near the moon. This approach,
      however, was still impetuous in the extreme; and it soon became alarmingly
      certain that, although I had probably not been deceived in the expectation
      of an atmosphere dense in proportion to the mass of the satellite, still I
      had been wrong in supposing this density, even at the surface, at all
      adequate to the support of the great weight contained in the car of my
      balloon. Yet this should have been the case, and in an equal degree as at
      the surface of the earth, the actual gravity of bodies at either planet
      supposed in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation. That it was not the
      case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony enough; why it was
      not so, can only be explained by a reference to those possible geological
      disturbances to which I have formerly alluded. At all events I was now
      close upon the planet, and coming down with the most terrible impetuosity.
      I lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing overboard first my ballast,
      then my water-kegs, then my condensing apparatus and gum-elastic chamber,
      and finally every article within the car. But it was all to no purpose. I
      still fell with horrible rapidity, and was now not more than half a mile
      from the surface. As a last resource, therefore, having got rid of my
      coat, hat, and boots, I cut loose from the balloon the car itself, which
      was of no inconsiderable weight, and thus, clinging with both hands to the
      net-work, I had barely time to observe that the whole country, as far as
      the eye could reach, was thickly interspersed with diminutive habitations,
      ere I tumbled headlong into the very heart of a fantastical-looking city,
      and into the middle of a vast crowd of ugly little people, who none of
      them uttered a single syllable, or gave themselves the least trouble to
      render me assistance, but stood, like a parcel of idiots, grinning in a
      ludicrous manner, and eyeing me and my balloon askant, with their arms set
      a-kimbo. I turned from them in contempt, and, gazing upward at the earth
      so lately left, and left perhaps for ever, beheld it like a huge, dull,
      copper shield, about two degrees in diameter, fixed immovably in the
      heavens overhead, and tipped on one of its edges with a crescent border of
      the most brilliant gold. No traces of land or water could be discovered,
      and the whole was clouded with variable spots, and belted with tropical
      and equatorial zones.
    

      “Thus, may it please your Excellencies, after a series of great anxieties,
      unheard of dangers, and unparalleled escapes, I had, at length, on the
      nineteenth day of my departure from Rotterdam, arrived in safety at the
      conclusion of a voyage undoubtedly the most extraordinary, and the most
      momentous, ever accomplished, undertaken, or conceived by any denizen of
      earth. But my adventures yet remain to be related. And indeed your
      Excellencies may well imagine that, after a residence of five years upon a
      planet not only deeply interesting in its own peculiar character, but
      rendered doubly so by its intimate connection, in capacity of satellite,
      with the world inhabited by man, I may have intelligence for the private
      ear of the States’ College of Astronomers of far more importance than the
      details, however wonderful, of the mere voyage which so happily concluded.
      This is, in fact, the case. I have much—very much which it would
      give me the greatest pleasure to communicate. I have much to say of the
      climate of the planet; of its wonderful alternations of heat and cold, of
      unmitigated and burning sunshine for one fortnight, and more than polar
      frigidity for the next; of a constant transfer of moisture, by
      distillation like that in vacuo, from the point beneath the sun to the
      point the farthest from it; of a variable zone of running water; of the
      people themselves; of their manners, customs, and political institutions;
      of their peculiar physical construction; of their ugliness; of their want
      of ears, those useless appendages in an atmosphere so peculiarly modified;
      of their consequent ignorance of the use and properties of speech; of
      their substitute for speech in a singular method of inter-communication;
      of the incomprehensible connection between each particular individual in
      the moon with some particular individual on the earth—a connection
      analogous with, and depending upon, that of the orbs of the planet and the
      satellites, and by means of which the lives and destinies of the
      inhabitants of the one are interwoven with the lives and destinies of the
      inhabitants of the other; and above all, if it so please your Excellencies—above
      all, of those dark and hideous mysteries which lie in the outer regions of
      the moon—regions which, owing to the almost miraculous accordance of
      the satellite’s rotation on its own axis with its sidereal revolution
      about the earth, have never yet been turned, and, by God’s mercy, never
      shall be turned, to the scrutiny of the telescopes of man. All this, and
      more—much more—would I most willingly detail. But, to be
      brief, I must have my reward. I am pining for a return to my family and to
      my home; and as the price of any farther communication on my part—in
      consideration of the light which I have it in my power to throw upon many
      very important branches of physical and metaphysical science—I must
      solicit, through the influence of your honorable body, a pardon for the
      crime of which I have been guilty in the death of the creditors upon my
      departure from Rotterdam. This, then, is the object of the present paper.
      Its bearer, an inhabitant of the moon, whom I have prevailed upon, and
      properly instructed, to be my messenger to the earth, will await your
      Excellencies’ pleasure, and return to me with the pardon in question, if
      it can, in any manner, be obtained.
    

      “I have the honor to be, etc., your Excellencies’ very humble servant,
    

      “H
ANS
 P
FAALL
.”
     

      Upon finishing the perusal of this very extraordinary document, Professor
      Rub-a-dub, it is said, dropped his pipe upon the ground in the extremity
      of his surprise, and Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk having taken off his
      spectacles, wiped them, and deposited them in his pocket, so far forgot
      both himself and his dignity, as to turn round three times upon his heel
      in the quintessence of astonishment and admiration. There was no doubt
      about the matter—the pardon should be obtained. So at least swore,
      with a round oath, Professor Rub-a-dub, and so finally thought the
      illustrious Von Underduk, as he took the arm of his brother in science,
      and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way home to
      deliberate upon the measures to be adopted. Having reached the door,
      however, of the burgomaster’s dwelling, the professor ventured to suggest
      that as the messenger had thought proper to disappear—no doubt
      frightened to death by the savage appearance of the burghers of Rotterdam—the
      pardon would be of little use, as no one but a man of the moon would
      undertake a voyage to so vast a distance. To the truth of this observation
      the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore at an end. Not so,
      however, rumors and speculations. The letter, having been published, gave
      rise to a variety of gossip and opinion. Some of the over-wise even made
      themselves ridiculous by decrying the whole business; as nothing better
      than a hoax. But hoax, with these sort of people, is, I believe, a general
      term for all matters above their comprehension. For my part, I cannot
      conceive upon what data they have founded such an accusation. Let us see
      what they say:
    

      Imprimus. That certain wags in Rotterdam have certain especial antipathies
      to certain burgomasters and astronomers.
    

      Don’t understand at all.
    

      Secondly. That an odd little dwarf and bottle conjurer, both of whose
      ears, for some misdemeanor, have been cut off close to his head, has been
      missing for several days from the neighboring city of Bruges.
    

      Well—what of that?
    

      Thirdly. That the newspapers which were stuck all over the little balloon
      were newspapers of Holland, and therefore could not have been made in the
      moon. They were dirty papers—very dirty—and Gluck, the
      printer, would take his Bible oath to their having been printed in
      Rotterdam.
    

      He was mistaken—undoubtedly—mistaken.
    

      Fourthly, That Hans Pfaall himself, the drunken villain, and the three
      very idle gentlemen styled his creditors, were all seen, no longer than
      two or three days ago, in a tippling house in the suburbs, having just
      returned, with money in their pockets, from a trip beyond the sea.
    

      Don’t believe it—don’t believe a word of it.
    

      Lastly. That it is an opinion very generally received, or which ought to
      be generally received, that the College of Astronomers in the city of
      Rotterdam, as well as other colleges in all other parts of the world,—not
      to mention colleges and astronomers in general,—are, to say the
      least of the matter, not a whit better, nor greater, nor wiser than they
      ought to be.
    

      ~~~ End of Text ~~~
    

Notes to Hans Pfaal

      (*1) NOTE—Strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between
      the above sketchy trifle and the celebrated “Moon-Story” of Mr. Locke; but
      as both have the character of 
hoaxes
 (although the one is in a tone
      of banter, the other of downright earnest), and as both hoaxes are on the
      same subject, the moon—moreover, as both attempt to give
      plausibility by scientific detail—the author of “Hans Pfaall” thinks
      it necessary to say, in 
self-defence,
 that his own 
jeu d’esprit

      was published in the “Southern Literary Messenger” about three weeks
      before the commencement of Mr. L’s in the “New York Sun.” Fancying a
      likeness which, perhaps, does not exist, some of the New York papers
      copied “Hans Pfaall,” and collated it with the “Moon-Hoax,” by way of
      detecting the writer of the one in the writer of the other.
    

      As many more persons were actually gulled by the “Moon-Hoax” than would be
      willing to acknowledge the fact, it may here afford some little amusement
      to show why no one should have been deceived-to point out those
      particulars of the story which should have been sufficient to establish
      its real character. Indeed, however rich the imagination displayed in this
      ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which might have been given
      it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and to general analogy. That
      the public were misled, even for an instant, merely proves the gross
      ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon subjects of an astronomical
      nature.
    

      The moon’s distance from the earth is, in round numbers, 240,000 miles. If
      we desire to ascertain how near, apparently, a lens would bring the
      satellite (or any distant object), we, of course, have but to divide the
      distance by the magnifying or, more strictly, by the space-penetrating
      power of the glass. Mr. L. makes his lens have a power of 42,000 times. By
      this divide 240,000 (the moon’s real distance), and we have five miles and
      five sevenths, as the apparent distance. No animal at all could be seen so
      far; much less the minute points particularized in the story. Mr. L.
      speaks about Sir John Herschel’s perceiving flowers (the Papaver rheas,
      etc.), and even detecting the color and the shape of the eyes of small
      birds. Shortly before, too, he has himself observed that the lens would
      not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen inches in diameter;
      but even this, as I have said, is giving the glass by far too great power.
      It may be observed, in passing, that this prodigious glass is said to have
      been molded at the glasshouse of Messrs. Hartley and Grant, in Dumbarton;
      but Messrs. H. and G.‘s establishment had ceased operations for many years
      previous to the publication of the hoax.
    

      On page 13, pamphlet edition, speaking of “a hairy veil” over the eyes of
      a species of bison, the author says: “It immediately occurred to the acute
      mind of Dr. Herschel that this was a providential contrivance to protect
      the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light and darkness to
      which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are periodically
      subjected.” But this cannot be thought a very “acute” observation of the
      Doctor’s. The inhabitants of our side of the moon have, evidently, no
      darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the “extremes” mentioned. In
      the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of
      thirteen full unclouded moons.
    