      “April 11th. Found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of the
      earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first time, in
      that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being full. It
      now required long and excessive labor to condense within the chamber
      sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life.
    

      “April 12th. A singular alteration took place in regard to the
      direction of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the
      most unequivocal delight. Having reached, in its former course, about the
      twentieth parallel of southern latitude, it turned off suddenly, at an
      acute angle, to the eastward, and thus proceeded throughout the day,
      keeping nearly, if not altogether, in the exact plane of the lunar
      ellipse. What was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in the
      car was a consequence of this change of route—a vacillation which
      prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours.
    

      “April 13th. Was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the
      loud, crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth. Thought long upon
      the subject, but was unable to form any satisfactory conclusion. Great
      decrease in the earth’s apparent diameter, which now subtended from
      the balloon an angle of very little more than twenty-five degrees. The
      moon could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith. I still
      continued in the plane of the ellipse, but made little progress to the
      eastward.
    

      “April 14th. Extremely rapid decrease in the diameter of the earth. To-day
      I became strongly impressed with the idea, that the balloon was now
      actually running up the line of apsides to the point of perigee—in
      other words, holding the direct course which would bring it immediately to
      the moon in that part of its orbit the nearest to the earth. The moon
      itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view. Great
      and long-continued labor necessary for the condensation of the atmosphere.
    

      “April 15th. Not even the outlines of continents and seas could now be
      traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness. About twelve
      o’clock I became aware, for the third time, of that appalling sound which
      had so astonished me before. It now, however, continued for some moments,
      and gathered intensity as it continued. At length, while, stupefied and
      terror-stricken, I stood in expectation of I knew not what hideous
      destruction, the car vibrated with excessive violence, and a gigantic and
      flaming mass of some material which I could not distinguish, came with a
      voice of a thousand thunders, roaring and booming by the balloon. When my
      fears and astonishment had in some degree subsided, I had little
      difficulty in supposing it to be some mighty volcanic fragment ejected
      from that world to which I was so rapidly approaching, and, in all
      probability, one of that singular class of substances occasionally picked
      up on the earth, and termed meteoric stones for want of a better
      appellation.
    

      “April 16th. To-day, looking upward as well as I could, through each of
      the side windows alternately, I beheld, to my great delight, a very small
      portion of the moon’s disk protruding, as it were, on all sides beyond the
      huge circumference of the balloon. My agitation was extreme; for I had now
      little doubt of soon reaching the end of my perilous voyage. Indeed, the
      labor now required by the condenser had increased to a most oppressive
      degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from exertion. Sleep was a
      matter nearly out of the question. I became quite ill, and my frame
      trembled with exhaustion. It was impossible that human nature could endure
      this state of intense suffering much longer. During the now brief interval
      of darkness a meteoric stone again passed in my vicinity, and the
      frequency of these phenomena began to occasion me much apprehension.
    

      “April 17th. This morning proved an epoch in my voyage. It will be
      remembered that, on the thirteenth, the earth subtended an angular
      breadth of twenty-five degrees. On the fourteenth this had greatly
      diminished; on the fifteenth a still more remarkable decrease was
      observable; and, on retiring on the night of the sixteenth, I had noticed
      an angle of no more than about seven degrees and fifteen minutes. What,
      therefore, must have been my amazement, on awakening from a brief and
      disturbed slumber, on the morning of this day, the seventeenth, at
      finding the surface beneath me so suddenly and wonderfully augmented in
      volume, as to subtend no less than thirty-nine degrees in apparent
      angular diameter! I was thunderstruck! No words can give any adequate
      idea of the extreme, the absolute horror and astonishment, with which I
      was seized possessed, and altogether overwhelmed. My knees tottered
      beneath me—my teeth chattered—my hair started up on end.
      ‘The balloon, then, had actually burst!’ These were the first
      tumultuous ideas that hurried through my mind: ‘The balloon had
      positively burst!—I was falling—falling with the most
      impetuous, the most unparalleled velocity! To judge by the immense
      distance already so quickly passed over, it could not be more than ten
      minutes, at the farthest, before I should meet the surface of the earth,
      and be hurled into annihilation!’ But at length reflection came to
      my relief. I paused; I considered; and I began to doubt. The matter was
      impossible. I could not in any reason have so rapidly come down. Besides,
      although I was evidently approaching the surface below me, it was with a
      speed by no means commensurate with the velocity I had at first so
      horribly conceived. This consideration served to calm the perturbation of
      my mind, and I finally succeeded in regarding the phenomenon in its
      proper point of view. In fact, amazement must have fairly deprived me of
      my senses, when I could not see the vast difference, in appearance,
      between the surface below me, and the surface of my mother earth. The
      latter was indeed over my head, and completely hidden by the balloon,
      while the moon—the moon itself in all its glory—lay beneath
      me, and at my feet.
    

      “The stupor and surprise produced in my mind by this extraordinary change
      in the posture of affairs was perhaps, after all, that part of the
      adventure least susceptible of explanation. For the bouleversement in
      itself was not only natural and inevitable, but had been long actually
      anticipated as a circumstance to be expected whenever I should arrive at
      that exact point of my voyage where the attraction of the planet should be
      superseded by the attraction of the satellite—or, more precisely,
      where the gravitation of the balloon toward the earth should be less
      powerful than its gravitation toward the moon. To be sure I arose from a
      sound slumber, with all my senses in confusion, to the contemplation of a
      very startling phenomenon, and one which, although expected, was not
      expected at the moment. The revolution itself must, of course, have taken
      place in an easy and gradual manner, and it is by no means clear that, had
      I even been awake at the time of the occurrence, I should have been made
      aware of it by any internal evidence of an inversion—that is to say,
      by any inconvenience or disarrangement, either about my person or about my
      apparatus.
    

      “It is almost needless to say that, upon coming to a due sense of my
      situation, and emerging from the terror which had absorbed every faculty
      of my soul, my attention was, in the first place, wholly directed to the
      contemplation of the general physical appearance of the moon. It lay
      beneath me like a chart—and although I judged it to be still at no
      inconsiderable distance, the indentures of its surface were defined to my
      vision with a most striking and altogether unaccountable distinctness. The
      entire absence of ocean or sea, and indeed of any lake or river, or body
      of water whatsoever, struck me, at first glance, as the most extraordinary
      feature in its geological condition. Yet, strange to say, I beheld vast
      level regions of a character decidedly alluvial, although by far the
      greater portion of the hemisphere in sight was covered with innumerable
      volcanic mountains, conical in shape, and having more the appearance of
      artificial than of natural protuberance. The highest among them does not
      exceed three and three-quarter miles in perpendicular elevation; but a map
      of the volcanic districts of the Campi Phlegraei would afford to your
      Excellencies a better idea of their general surface than any unworthy
      description I might think proper to attempt. The greater part of them were
      in a state of evident eruption, and gave me fearfully to understand their
      fury and their power, by the repeated thunders of the miscalled meteoric
      stones, which now rushed upward by the balloon with a frequency more and
      more appalling.
    

      “April 18th. To-day I found an enormous increase in the moon’s apparent
      bulk—and the evidently accelerated velocity of my descent began to
      fill me with alarm. It will be remembered, that, in the earliest stage of
      my speculations upon the possibility of a passage to the moon, the
      existence, in its vicinity, of an atmosphere, dense in proportion to the
      bulk of the planet, had entered largely into my calculations; this too in
      spite of many theories to the contrary, and, it may be added, in spite of
      a general disbelief in the existence of any lunar atmosphere at all. But,
      in addition to what I have already urged in regard to Encke’s comet and
      the zodiacal light, I had been strengthened in my opinion by certain
      observations of Mr. Schroeter, of Lilienthal. He observed the moon when
      two days and a half old, in the evening soon after sunset, before the dark
      part was visible, and continued to watch it until it became visible. The
      two cusps appeared tapering in a very sharp faint prolongation, each
      exhibiting its farthest extremity faintly illuminated by the solar rays,
      before any part of the dark hemisphere was visible. Soon afterward, the
      whole dark limb became illuminated. This prolongation of the cusps beyond
      the semicircle, I thought, must have arisen from the refraction of the
      sun’s rays by the moon’s atmosphere. I computed, also, the height of the
      atmosphere (which could refract light enough into its dark hemisphere to
      produce a twilight more luminous than the light reflected from the earth
      when the moon is about 32° from the new) to be 1,356 Paris feet; in
      this view, I supposed the greatest height capable of refracting the solar
      ray, to be 5,376 feet. My ideas on this topic had also received
      confirmation by a passage in the eighty-second volume of the Philosophical
      Transactions, in which it is stated that at an occultation of Jupiter’s
      satellites, the third disappeared after having been about 1″ or 2″ of time
      indistinct, and the fourth became indiscernible near the limb.(*4)
    

      “Upon the resistance or, more properly, upon the support of an atmosphere,
      existing in the state of density imagined, I had, of course, entirely
      depended for the safety of my ultimate descent. Should I then, after all,
      prove to have been mistaken, I had in consequence nothing better to
      expect, as a finale to my adventure, than being dashed into atoms against
      the rugged surface of the satellite. And, indeed, I had now every reason
      to be terrified. My distance from the moon was comparatively trifling,
      while the labor required by the condenser was diminished not at all, and I
      could discover no indication whatever of a decreasing rarity in the air.