“April 19th. This morning, to my great joy, about nine o’clock, the
      surface of the moon being frightfully near, and my apprehensions excited
      to the utmost, the pump of my condenser at length gave evident tokens of
      an alteration in the atmosphere. By ten, I had reason to believe its
      density considerably increased. By eleven, very little labor was necessary
      at the apparatus; and at twelve o’clock, with some hesitation, I ventured
      to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience from having done
      so, I finally threw open the gum-elastic chamber, and unrigged it from
      around the car. As might have been expected, spasms and violent headache
      were the immediate consequences of an experiment so precipitate and full
      of danger. But these and other difficulties attending respiration, as they
      were by no means so great as to put me in peril of my life, I determined
      to endure as I best could, in consideration of my leaving them behind me
      momently in my approach to the denser strata near the moon. This approach,
      however, was still impetuous in the extreme; and it soon became alarmingly
      certain that, although I had probably not been deceived in the expectation
      of an atmosphere dense in proportion to the mass of the satellite, still I
      had been wrong in supposing this density, even at the surface, at all
      adequate to the support of the great weight contained in the car of my
      balloon. Yet this should have been the case, and in an equal degree as at
      the surface of the earth, the actual gravity of bodies at either planet
      supposed in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation. That it was not the
      case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony enough; why it was
      not so, can only be explained by a reference to those possible geological
      disturbances to which I have formerly alluded. At all events I was now
      close upon the planet, and coming down with the most terrible impetuosity.
      I lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing overboard first my ballast,
      then my water-kegs, then my condensing apparatus and gum-elastic chamber,
      and finally every article within the car. But it was all to no purpose. I
      still fell with horrible rapidity, and was now not more than half a mile
      from the surface. As a last resource, therefore, having got rid of my
      coat, hat, and boots, I cut loose from the balloon the car itself, which
      was of no inconsiderable weight, and thus, clinging with both hands to the
      net-work, I had barely time to observe that the whole country, as far as
      the eye could reach, was thickly interspersed with diminutive habitations,
      ere I tumbled headlong into the very heart of a fantastical-looking city,
      and into the middle of a vast crowd of ugly little people, who none of
      them uttered a single syllable, or gave themselves the least trouble to
      render me assistance, but stood, like a parcel of idiots, grinning in a
      ludicrous manner, and eyeing me and my balloon askant, with their arms set
      a-kimbo. I turned from them in contempt, and, gazing upward at the earth
      so lately left, and left perhaps for ever, beheld it like a huge, dull,
      copper shield, about two degrees in diameter, fixed immovably in the
      heavens overhead, and tipped on one of its edges with a crescent border of
      the most brilliant gold. No traces of land or water could be discovered,
      and the whole was clouded with variable spots, and belted with tropical
      and equatorial zones.
    

      “Thus, may it please your Excellencies, after a series of great anxieties,
      unheard of dangers, and unparalleled escapes, I had, at length, on the
      nineteenth day of my departure from Rotterdam, arrived in safety at the
      conclusion of a voyage undoubtedly the most extraordinary, and the most
      momentous, ever accomplished, undertaken, or conceived by any denizen of
      earth. But my adventures yet remain to be related. And indeed your
      Excellencies may well imagine that, after a residence of five years upon a
      planet not only deeply interesting in its own peculiar character, but
      rendered doubly so by its intimate connection, in capacity of satellite,
      with the world inhabited by man, I may have intelligence for the private
      ear of the States’ College of Astronomers of far more importance than the
      details, however wonderful, of the mere voyage which so happily concluded.
      This is, in fact, the case. I have much—very much which it would
      give me the greatest pleasure to communicate. I have much to say of the
      climate of the planet; of its wonderful alternations of heat and cold, of
      unmitigated and burning sunshine for one fortnight, and more than polar
      frigidity for the next; of a constant transfer of moisture, by
      distillation like that in vacuo, from the point beneath the sun to the
      point the farthest from it; of a variable zone of running water; of the
      people themselves; of their manners, customs, and political institutions;
      of their peculiar physical construction; of their ugliness; of their want
      of ears, those useless appendages in an atmosphere so peculiarly modified;
      of their consequent ignorance of the use and properties of speech; of
      their substitute for speech in a singular method of inter-communication;
      of the incomprehensible connection between each particular individual in
      the moon with some particular individual on the earth—a connection
      analogous with, and depending upon, that of the orbs of the planet and the
      satellites, and by means of which the lives and destinies of the
      inhabitants of the one are interwoven with the lives and destinies of the
      inhabitants of the other; and above all, if it so please your Excellencies—above
      all, of those dark and hideous mysteries which lie in the outer regions of
      the moon—regions which, owing to the almost miraculous accordance of
      the satellite’s rotation on its own axis with its sidereal revolution
      about the earth, have never yet been turned, and, by God’s mercy, never
      shall be turned, to the scrutiny of the telescopes of man. All this, and
      more—much more—would I most willingly detail. But, to be
      brief, I must have my reward. I am pining for a return to my family and to
      my home; and as the price of any farther communication on my part—in
      consideration of the light which I have it in my power to throw upon many
      very important branches of physical and metaphysical science—I must
      solicit, through the influence of your honorable body, a pardon for the
      crime of which I have been guilty in the death of the creditors upon my
      departure from Rotterdam. This, then, is the object of the present paper.
      Its bearer, an inhabitant of the moon, whom I have prevailed upon, and
      properly instructed, to be my messenger to the earth, will await your
      Excellencies’ pleasure, and return to me with the pardon in question, if
      it can, in any manner, be obtained.
    

      “I have the honor to be, etc., your Excellencies’ very humble servant,
    

      “H
ANS
 P
FAALL
.”
     

      Upon finishing the perusal of this very extraordinary document, Professor
      Rub-a-dub, it is said, dropped his pipe upon the ground in the extremity
      of his surprise, and Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk having taken off his
      spectacles, wiped them, and deposited them in his pocket, so far forgot
      both himself and his dignity, as to turn round three times upon his heel
      in the quintessence of astonishment and admiration. There was no doubt
      about the matter—the pardon should be obtained. So at least swore,
      with a round oath, Professor Rub-a-dub, and so finally thought the
      illustrious Von Underduk, as he took the arm of his brother in science,
      and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way home to
      deliberate upon the measures to be adopted. Having reached the door,
      however, of the burgomaster’s dwelling, the professor ventured to suggest
      that as the messenger had thought proper to disappear—no doubt
      frightened to death by the savage appearance of the burghers of Rotterdam—the
      pardon would be of little use, as no one but a man of the moon would
      undertake a voyage to so vast a distance. To the truth of this observation
      the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore at an end. Not so,
      however, rumors and speculations. The letter, having been published, gave
      rise to a variety of gossip and opinion. Some of the over-wise even made
      themselves ridiculous by decrying the whole business; as nothing better
      than a hoax. But hoax, with these sort of people, is, I believe, a general
      term for all matters above their comprehension. For my part, I cannot
      conceive upon what data they have founded such an accusation. Let us see
      what they say:
    

      Imprimus. That certain wags in Rotterdam have certain especial antipathies
      to certain burgomasters and astronomers.
    

      Don’t understand at all.
    

      Secondly. That an odd little dwarf and bottle conjurer, both of whose
      ears, for some misdemeanor, have been cut off close to his head, has been
      missing for several days from the neighboring city of Bruges.
    

      Well—what of that?
    

      Thirdly. That the newspapers which were stuck all over the little balloon
      were newspapers of Holland, and therefore could not have been made in the
      moon. They were dirty papers—very dirty—and Gluck, the
      printer, would take his Bible oath to their having been printed in
      Rotterdam.
    

      He was mistaken—undoubtedly—mistaken.
    

      Fourthly, That Hans Pfaall himself, the drunken villain, and the three
      very idle gentlemen styled his creditors, were all seen, no longer than
      two or three days ago, in a tippling house in the suburbs, having just
      returned, with money in their pockets, from a trip beyond the sea.
    

      Don’t believe it—don’t believe a word of it.
    

      Lastly. That it is an opinion very generally received, or which ought to
      be generally received, that the College of Astronomers in the city of
      Rotterdam, as well as other colleges in all other parts of the world,—not
      to mention colleges and astronomers in general,—are, to say the
      least of the matter, not a whit better, nor greater, nor wiser than they
      ought to be.
    

      ~~~ End of Text ~~~
    

Notes to Hans Pfaal

      (*1) NOTE—Strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between
      the above sketchy trifle and the celebrated “Moon-Story” of Mr. Locke; but
      as both have the character of 
hoaxes
 (although the one is in a tone
      of banter, the other of downright earnest), and as both hoaxes are on the
      same subject, the moon—moreover, as both attempt to give
      plausibility by scientific detail—the author of “Hans Pfaall” thinks
      it necessary to say, in 
self-defence,
 that his own 
jeu d’esprit

      was published in the “Southern Literary Messenger” about three weeks
      before the commencement of Mr. L’s in the “New York Sun.” Fancying a
      likeness which, perhaps, does not exist, some of the New York papers
      copied “Hans Pfaall,” and collated it with the “Moon-Hoax,” by way of
      detecting the writer of the one in the writer of the other.
    

      As many more persons were actually gulled by the “Moon-Hoax” than would be
      willing to acknowledge the fact, it may here afford some little amusement
      to show why no one should have been deceived-to point out those
      particulars of the story which should have been sufficient to establish
      its real character. Indeed, however rich the imagination displayed in this
      ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which might have been given
      it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and to general analogy. That
      the public were misled, even for an instant, merely proves the gross
      ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon subjects of an astronomical
      nature.
    

      The moon’s distance from the earth is, in round numbers, 240,000 miles. If
      we desire to ascertain how near, apparently, a lens would bring the
      satellite (or any distant object), we, of course, have but to divide the
      distance by the magnifying or, more strictly, by the space-penetrating
      power of the glass. Mr. L. makes his lens have a power of 42,000 times. By
      this divide 240,000 (the moon’s real distance), and we have five miles and
      five sevenths, as the apparent distance. No animal at all could be seen so
      far; much less the minute points particularized in the story. Mr. L.
      speaks about Sir John Herschel’s perceiving flowers (the Papaver rheas,
      etc.), and even detecting the color and the shape of the eyes of small
      birds. Shortly before, too, he has himself observed that the lens would
      not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen inches in diameter;
      but even this, as I have said, is giving the glass by far too great power.
      It may be observed, in passing, that this prodigious glass is said to have
      been molded at the glasshouse of Messrs. Hartley and Grant, in Dumbarton;
      but Messrs. H. and G.‘s establishment had ceased operations for many years
      previous to the publication of the hoax.
    

      On page 13, pamphlet edition, speaking of “a hairy veil” over the eyes of
      a species of bison, the author says: “It immediately occurred to the acute
      mind of Dr. Herschel that this was a providential contrivance to protect
      the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light and darkness to
      which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are periodically
      subjected.” But this cannot be thought a very “acute” observation of the
      Doctor’s. The inhabitants of our side of the moon have, evidently, no
      darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the “extremes” mentioned. In
      the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of
      thirteen full unclouded moons.
    

      The topography throughout, even when professing to accord with Blunt’s
      Lunar Chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart,
      and even grossly at variance with itself. The points of the compass, too,
      are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant that,
      on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial points; the
      east being to the left, etc.
    

      Deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, Mare Nubium, Mare Tranquillitatis,
      Mare Faecunditatis, etc., given to the dark spots by former astronomers,
      Mr. L. has entered into details regarding oceans and other large bodies of
      water in the moon; whereas there is no astronomical point more positively
      ascertained than that no such bodies exist there. In examining the
      boundary between light and darkness (in the crescent or gibbous moon)
      where this boundary crosses any of the dark places, the line of division
      is found to be rough and jagged; but, were these dark places liquid, it
      would evidently be even.
    

      The description of the wings of the man-bat, on page 21, is but a literal
      copy of Peter Wilkins’ account of the wings of his flying islanders. This
      simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it might be thought.
    

      On page 23, we have the following: “What a prodigious influence must our
      thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an
      embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity!”
       This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have
      made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the earth, in
      the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty-nine times larger than
      the moon. A similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding
      pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in Saturn, the
      philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that
      planet—this to the “Edinburgh Journal of Science!”
     

      But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the
      fiction. Let us imagine the power actually possessed of seeing animals
      upon the moon’s surface—what would first arrest the attention of an
      observer from the earth? Certainly neither their shape, size, nor any
      other such peculiarity, so soon as their remarkable 
situation
. They
      would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner of
      flies on a ceiling. The 
real
 observer would have uttered an instant
      ejaculation of surprise (however prepared by previous knowledge) at the
      singularity of their position; the 
fictitious
 observer has not even
      mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such
      creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the
      diameter of their heads!
    

      It might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and
      particularly the powers of the man-bats (for example, their ability to fly
      in so rare an atmosphere—if, indeed, the moon have any), with most
      of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at
      variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and
      that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration. It is,
      perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed to
      Brewster and Herschel, in the beginning of the article, about “a
      transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision,” etc.,
      etc., belong to that species of figurative writing which comes, most
      properly, under the denomination of rigmarole.
    

      There is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the
      stars—a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood.
      If, indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required,
      man’s ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we
      might have them of any size demanded. But, unhappily, in proportion to
      the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space-penetrating
      power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its
      rays. And for this evil there is no remedy within human ability; for an
      object is seen by means of that light alone which proceeds from itself,
      whether direct or reflected. Thus the only “artificial” light
      which could avail Mr. Locke, would be some artificial light which he
      should be able to throw—not upon the “focal object of
      vision,” but upon the real object to be viewed—to wit: upon
      the moon. It has been easily calculated that, when the light proceeding
      from a star becomes so diffused as to be as weak as the natural light
      proceeding from the whole of the stars, in a clear and moonless night,
      then the star is no longer visible for any practical purpose.
    

      The Earl of Ross’s telescope, lately constructed in England, has a 
speculum

      with a reflecting surface of 4,071 square inches; the Herschel telescope
      having one of only 1,811. The metal of the Earl of Ross’s is 6 feet
      diameter; it is 5 1/2 inches thick at the edges, and 5 at the centre. The
      weight is 3 tons. The focal length is 50 feet.
    

      I have lately read a singular and somewhat ingenious little book, whose
      title-page runs thus: “L’Homme dans la lvne ou le Voyage Chimerique fait
      au Monde de la Lvne, nouellement decouvert par Dominique Gonzales,
      Aduanturier Espagnol, autrem?t dit le Courier volant. Mis en notre
      langve par J. B. D. A. Paris, chez Francois Piot, pres la Fontaine de
      Saint Benoist. Et chez J. Goignard, au premier pilier de la grand’salle du
      Palais, proche les Consultations, MDCXLVII.” Pp. 76.
    

      The writer professes to have translated his work from the English of one
      Mr. D’Avisson (Davidson?) although there is a terrible ambiguity in the
      statement. “J’ en ai eu,” says he “l’original de Monsieur D’Avisson,
      medecin des mieux versez qui soient aujourd’huy dans la cõnoissance
      des Belles Lettres, et sur tout de la Philosophic Naturelle. Je lui ai
      cette obligation entre les autres, de m’ auoir non seulement mis en main
      ce Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D’Anan,
      gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel
      j’ advoue que j’ ay tiré le plan de la mienne.”
     

      After some irrelevant adventures, much in the manner of Gil Blas, and
      which occupy the first thirty pages, the author relates that, being ill
      during a sea voyage, the crew abandoned him, together with a negro
      servant, on the island of St. Helena. To increase the chances of
      obtaining food, the two separate, and live as far apart as possible. This
      brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier-pigeons
      between them. By and by these are taught to carry parcels of some
      weight—and this weight is gradually increased. At length the idea
      is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the birds, with
      a view to raising the author himself. A machine is contrived for the
      purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is materially
      helped out by a steel engraving. Here we perceive the Signor Gonzales,
      with point ruffles and a huge periwig, seated astride something which
      resembles very closely a broomstick, and borne aloft by a multitude of
      wild swans 
(ganzas)
 who had strings reaching from their tails to
      the machine.
    

      The main event detailed in the Signor’s narrative depends upon a very
      important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the
      end of the book. The 
ganzas,
 with whom he had become so familiar,
      were not really denizens of St. Helena, but of the moon. Thence it had
      been their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion
      of the earth. In proper season, of course, they would return home; and the
      author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short voyage,
      is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period arrives
      at the satellite. Here he finds, among other odd things, that the people
      enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no 
law;
 that they die
      without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height; that they
      live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called Irdonozur; and
      that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of the gravitating
      influence, they fly about with fans.
    

      I cannot forbear giving a specimen of the general 
philosophy
 of the
      volume.
    

“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of
the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also me and the earth. As to the
stars, 
since there was no night where I was, they always had the same
appearance; not brilliant, as usual, but pale, and very nearly like the
moon of a morning. 
But few of them were visible, and these ten times
larger (as well as I could judge) than they seem to the inhabitants
of the earth. The moon, which wanted two days of being full, was of a
terrible bigness.
    

“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side
of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also to inform you that, whether it was
calm weather or stormy, I found myself 
always immediately between the
moon and the earth.
 I
 
was convinced of this for two reasons-because
my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we
attempted to rest, 
we were carried insensibly around the globe of the
earth. 
For I admit the opinion of Copernicus, who maintains that it
never ceases to revolve 
from the east to the west, 
not upon the poles
of the Equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon
those of the Zodiac, a question of which I propose to speak more at
length here-after, when I shall have leisure to refresh my memory in
regard to the astrology which I learned at Salamanca when young, and
have since forgotten.”
 

      Notwithstanding the blunders italicized, the book is not without some
      claim to attention, as affording a naive specimen of the current
      astronomical notions of the time. One of these assumed, that the
      “gravitating power” extended but a short distance from the earth’s
      surface, and, accordingly, we find our voyager “carried insensibly around
      the globe,” etc.
    

      There have been other “voyages to the moon,” but none of higher merit than
      the one just mentioned. That of Bergerac is utterly meaningless. In the
      third volume of the “American Quarterly Review” will be found quite an
      elaborate criticism upon a certain “journey” of the kind in question—a
      criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes
      the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy. I
      forget the title of the work; but the 
means
 of the voyage are more
      deplorably ill conceived than are even the 
ganzas
 of our friend the
      Signor Gonzales. The adventurer, in digging the earth, happens to discover
      a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong attraction, and
      straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast loose from its
      terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to the satellite. The
      “Flight of Thomas O’Rourke,” is a 
jeu d’ esprit
 not altogether
      contemptible, and has been translated into German. Thomas, the hero, was,
      in fact, the gamekeeper of an Irish peer, whose eccentricities gave rise
      to the tale. The “flight” is made on an eagle’s back, from Hungry Hill, a
      lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay.
    

      In these various 
brochures
 the aim is always satirical; the theme
      being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours. In none is
      there any effort at 
plausibility
 in the details of the voyage
      itself. The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in
      respect to astronomy. In “Hans Pfaall” the design is original, inasmuch as
      regards an attempt at 
verisimilitude,
 in the application of
      scientific principles (so far as the whimsical nature of the subject would
      permit), to the actual passage between the earth and the moon.
    

      (*2) The zodiacal light is probably what the ancients called Trabes.
      Emicant Trabes quos docos vocant.—Pliny, lib. 2, p. 26.
    

      (*3) Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that Mr. Green,
      of Nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions
      of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing inconvenience,—precisely
      in accordance with the theory here urged in a mere spirit of banter.
    

      (*4) Hevelius writes that he has several times found, in skies perfectly
      clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude were
      conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the same
      elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent telescope,
      the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all times. From
      the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the cause of this
      phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in the moon, or in the
      eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in something (an atmosphere?)
      existing about the moon.
    

      Cassini frequently observed Saturn, Jupiter, and the fixed stars, when
      approaching the moon to occultation, to have their circular figure changed
      into an oval one; and, in other occultations, he found no alteration of
      figure at all. Hence it might be supposed, that at some times and not at
      others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of
      the stars are refracted.