      The topography throughout, even when professing to accord with Blunt’s
      Lunar Chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart,
      and even grossly at variance with itself. The points of the compass, too,
      are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant that,
      on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial points; the
      east being to the left, etc.
    

      Deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, Mare Nubium, Mare Tranquillitatis,
      Mare Faecunditatis, etc., given to the dark spots by former astronomers,
      Mr. L. has entered into details regarding oceans and other large bodies of
      water in the moon; whereas there is no astronomical point more positively
      ascertained than that no such bodies exist there. In examining the
      boundary between light and darkness (in the crescent or gibbous moon)
      where this boundary crosses any of the dark places, the line of division
      is found to be rough and jagged; but, were these dark places liquid, it
      would evidently be even.
    

      The description of the wings of the man-bat, on page 21, is but a literal
      copy of Peter Wilkins’ account of the wings of his flying islanders. This
      simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it might be thought.
    

      On page 23, we have the following: “What a prodigious influence must our
      thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an
      embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity!”
       This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have
      made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the earth, in
      the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty-nine times larger than
      the moon. A similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding
      pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in Saturn, the
      philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that
      planet—this to the “Edinburgh Journal of Science!”
     

      But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the
      fiction. Let us imagine the power actually possessed of seeing animals
      upon the moon’s surface—what would first arrest the attention of an
      observer from the earth? Certainly neither their shape, size, nor any
      other such peculiarity, so soon as their remarkable 
situation
. They
      would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner of
      flies on a ceiling. The 
real
 observer would have uttered an instant
      ejaculation of surprise (however prepared by previous knowledge) at the
      singularity of their position; the 
fictitious
 observer has not even
      mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such
      creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the
      diameter of their heads!
    

      It might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and
      particularly the powers of the man-bats (for example, their ability to fly
      in so rare an atmosphere—if, indeed, the moon have any), with most
      of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at
      variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and
      that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration. It is,
      perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed to
      Brewster and Herschel, in the beginning of the article, about “a
      transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision,” etc.,
      etc., belong to that species of figurative writing which comes, most
      properly, under the denomination of rigmarole.
    

      There is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the
      stars—a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood.
      If, indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required,
      man’s ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we
      might have them of any size demanded. But, unhappily, in proportion to
      the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space-penetrating
      power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its
      rays. And for this evil there is no remedy within human ability; for an
      object is seen by means of that light alone which proceeds from itself,
      whether direct or reflected. Thus the only “artificial” light
      which could avail Mr. Locke, would be some artificial light which he
      should be able to throw—not upon the “focal object of
      vision,” but upon the real object to be viewed—to wit: upon
      the moon. It has been easily calculated that, when the light proceeding
      from a star becomes so diffused as to be as weak as the natural light
      proceeding from the whole of the stars, in a clear and moonless night,
      then the star is no longer visible for any practical purpose.
    

      The Earl of Ross’s telescope, lately constructed in England, has a 
speculum

      with a reflecting surface of 4,071 square inches; the Herschel telescope
      having one of only 1,811. The metal of the Earl of Ross’s is 6 feet
      diameter; it is 5 1/2 inches thick at the edges, and 5 at the centre. The
      weight is 3 tons. The focal length is 50 feet.
    

      I have lately read a singular and somewhat ingenious little book, whose
      title-page runs thus: “L’Homme dans la lvne ou le Voyage Chimerique fait
      au Monde de la Lvne, nouellement decouvert par Dominique Gonzales,
      Aduanturier Espagnol, autrem?t dit le Courier volant. Mis en notre
      langve par J. B. D. A. Paris, chez Francois Piot, pres la Fontaine de
      Saint Benoist. Et chez J. Goignard, au premier pilier de la grand’salle du
      Palais, proche les Consultations, MDCXLVII.” Pp. 76.
    

      The writer professes to have translated his work from the English of one
      Mr. D’Avisson (Davidson?) although there is a terrible ambiguity in the
      statement. “J’ en ai eu,” says he “l’original de Monsieur D’Avisson,
      medecin des mieux versez qui soient aujourd’huy dans la cõnoissance
      des Belles Lettres, et sur tout de la Philosophic Naturelle. Je lui ai
      cette obligation entre les autres, de m’ auoir non seulement mis en main
      ce Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D’Anan,
      gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel
      j’ advoue que j’ ay tiré le plan de la mienne.”
     

      After some irrelevant adventures, much in the manner of Gil Blas, and
      which occupy the first thirty pages, the author relates that, being ill
      during a sea voyage, the crew abandoned him, together with a negro
      servant, on the island of St. Helena. To increase the chances of
      obtaining food, the two separate, and live as far apart as possible. This
      brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier-pigeons
      between them. By and by these are taught to carry parcels of some
      weight—and this weight is gradually increased. At length the idea
      is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the birds, with
      a view to raising the author himself. A machine is contrived for the
      purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is materially
      helped out by a steel engraving. Here we perceive the Signor Gonzales,
      with point ruffles and a huge periwig, seated astride something which
      resembles very closely a broomstick, and borne aloft by a multitude of
      wild swans 
(ganzas)
 who had strings reaching from their tails to
      the machine.
    

      The main event detailed in the Signor’s narrative depends upon a very
      important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the
      end of the book. The 
ganzas,
 with whom he had become so familiar,
      were not really denizens of St. Helena, but of the moon. Thence it had
      been their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion
      of the earth. In proper season, of course, they would return home; and the
      author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short voyage,
      is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period arrives
      at the satellite. Here he finds, among other odd things, that the people
      enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no 
law;
 that they die
      without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height; that they
      live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called Irdonozur; and
      that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of the gravitating
      influence, they fly about with fans.
    

      I cannot forbear giving a specimen of the general 
philosophy
 of the
      volume.
    

“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of
the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also me and the earth. As to the
stars, 
since there was no night where I was, they always had the same
appearance; not brilliant, as usual, but pale, and very nearly like the
moon of a morning. 
But few of them were visible, and these ten times
larger (as well as I could judge) than they seem to the inhabitants
of the earth. The moon, which wanted two days of being full, was of a
terrible bigness.
    

“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side
of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also to inform you that, whether it was
calm weather or stormy, I found myself 
always immediately between the
moon and the earth.
 I
 
was convinced of this for two reasons-because
my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we
attempted to rest, 
we were carried insensibly around the globe of the
earth. 
For I admit the opinion of Copernicus, who maintains that it
never ceases to revolve 
from the east to the west, 
not upon the poles
of the Equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon
those of the Zodiac, a question of which I propose to speak more at
length here-after, when I shall have leisure to refresh my memory in
regard to the astrology which I learned at Salamanca when young, and
have since forgotten.”
 

      Notwithstanding the blunders italicized, the book is not without some
      claim to attention, as affording a naive specimen of the current
      astronomical notions of the time. One of these assumed, that the
      “gravitating power” extended but a short distance from the earth’s
      surface, and, accordingly, we find our voyager “carried insensibly around
      the globe,” etc.
    

      There have been other “voyages to the moon,” but none of higher merit than
      the one just mentioned. That of Bergerac is utterly meaningless. In the
      third volume of the “American Quarterly Review” will be found quite an
      elaborate criticism upon a certain “journey” of the kind in question—a
      criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes
      the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy. I
      forget the title of the work; but the 
means
 of the voyage are more
      deplorably ill conceived than are even the 
ganzas
 of our friend the
      Signor Gonzales. The adventurer, in digging the earth, happens to discover
      a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong attraction, and
      straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast loose from its
      terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to the satellite. The
      “Flight of Thomas O’Rourke,” is a 
jeu d’ esprit
 not altogether
      contemptible, and has been translated into German. Thomas, the hero, was,
      in fact, the gamekeeper of an Irish peer, whose eccentricities gave rise
      to the tale. The “flight” is made on an eagle’s back, from Hungry Hill, a
      lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay.
    

      In these various 
brochures
 the aim is always satirical; the theme
      being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours. In none is
      there any effort at 
plausibility
 in the details of the voyage
      itself. The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in
      respect to astronomy. In “Hans Pfaall” the design is original, inasmuch as
      regards an attempt at 
verisimilitude,
 in the application of
      scientific principles (so far as the whimsical nature of the subject would
      permit), to the actual passage between the earth and the moon.
    

      (*2) The zodiacal light is probably what the ancients called Trabes.
      Emicant Trabes quos docos vocant.—Pliny, lib. 2, p. 26.
    

      (*3) Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that Mr. Green,
      of Nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions
      of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing inconvenience,—precisely
      in accordance with the theory here urged in a mere spirit of banter.
    

      (*4) Hevelius writes that he has several times found, in skies perfectly
      clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude were
      conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the same
      elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent telescope,
      the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all times. From
      the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the cause of this
      phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in the moon, or in the
      eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in something (an atmosphere?)
      existing about the moon.
    

      Cassini frequently observed Saturn, Jupiter, and the fixed stars, when
      approaching the moon to occultation, to have their circular figure changed
      into an oval one; and, in other occultations, he found no alteration of
      figure at all. Hence it might be supposed, that at some times and not at
      others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of
      the stars are refracted.