“It is necessary to premise, that the balloon, at the elevation now
      attained, continued its course upward with an even and undeviating ascent,
      and the car consequently followed with a steadiness so perfect that it
      would have been impossible to detect in it the slightest vacillation
      whatever. This circumstance favored me greatly in the project I now
      determined to adopt. My supply of water had been put on board in kegs
      containing five gallons each, and ranged very securely around the interior
      of the car. I unfastened one of these, and taking two ropes tied them
      tightly across the rim of the wicker-work from one side to the other;
      placing them about a foot apart and parallel so as to form a kind of
      shelf, upon which I placed the keg, and steadied it in a horizontal
      position. About eight inches immediately below these ropes, and four feet
      from the bottom of the car I fastened another shelf—but made of thin
      plank, being the only similar piece of wood I had. Upon this latter shelf,
      and exactly beneath one of the rims of the keg, a small earthern pitcher
      was deposited. I now bored a hole in the end of the keg over the pitcher,
      and fitted in a plug of soft wood, cut in a tapering or conical shape.
      This plug I pushed in or pulled out, as might happen, until, after a few
      experiments, it arrived at that exact degree of tightness, at which the
      water, oozing from the hole, and falling into the pitcher below, would
      fill the latter to the brim in the period of sixty minutes. This, of
      course, was a matter briefly and easily ascertained, by noticing the
      proportion of the pitcher filled in any given time. Having arranged all
      this, the rest of the plan is obvious. My bed was so contrived upon the
      floor of the car, as to bring my head, in lying down, immediately below
      the mouth of the pitcher. It was evident, that, at the expiration of an
      hour, the pitcher, getting full, would be forced to run over, and to run
      over at the mouth, which was somewhat lower than the rim. It was also
      evident, that the water thus falling from a height of more than four feet,
      could not do otherwise than fall upon my face, and that the sure
      consequences would be, to waken me up instantaneously, even from the
      soundest slumber in the world.
    

      “It was fully eleven by the time I had completed these arrangements, and I
      immediately betook myself to bed, with full confidence in the efficiency
      of my invention. Nor in this matter was I disappointed. Punctually every
      sixty minutes was I aroused by my trusty chronometer, when, having emptied
      the pitcher into the bung-hole of the keg, and performed the duties of the
      condenser, I retired again to bed. These regular interruptions to my
      slumber caused me even less discomfort than I had anticipated; and when I
      finally arose for the day, it was seven o’clock, and the sun had attained
      many degrees above the line of my horizon.
    

      “April 3d. I found the balloon at an immense height indeed, and the
      earth’s apparent convexity increased in a material degree. Below me in the
      ocean lay a cluster of black specks, which undoubtedly were islands. Far
      away to the northward I perceived a thin, white, and exceedingly brilliant
      line, or streak, on the edge of the horizon, and I had no hesitation in
      supposing it to be the southern disk of the ices of the Polar Sea. My
      curiosity was greatly excited, for I had hopes of passing on much farther
      to the north, and might possibly, at some period, find myself placed
      directly above the Pole itself. I now lamented that my great elevation
      would, in this case, prevent my taking as accurate a survey as I could
      wish. Much, however, might be ascertained. Nothing else of an
      extraordinary nature occurred during the day. My apparatus all continued
      in good order, and the balloon still ascended without any perceptible
      vacillation. The cold was intense, and obliged me to wrap up closely in an
      overcoat. When darkness came over the earth, I betook myself to bed,
      although it was for many hours afterward broad daylight all around my
      immediate situation. The water-clock was punctual in its duty, and I slept
      until next morning soundly, with the exception of the periodical
      interruption.
    

      “April 4th. Arose in good health and spirits, and was astonished at the
      singular change which had taken place in the appearance of the sea. It had
      lost, in a great measure, the deep tint of blue it had hitherto worn,
      being now of a grayish-white, and of a lustre dazzling to the eye. The
      islands were no longer visible; whether they had passed down the horizon
      to the southeast, or whether my increasing elevation had left them out of
      sight, it is impossible to say. I was inclined, however, to the latter
      opinion. The rim of ice to the northward was growing more and more
      apparent. Cold by no means so intense. Nothing of importance occurred, and
      I passed the day in reading, having taken care to supply myself with
      books.
    

      “April 5th. Beheld the singular phenomenon of the sun rising while nearly
      the whole visible surface of the earth continued to be involved in
      darkness. In time, however, the light spread itself over all, and I again
      saw the line of ice to the northward. It was now very distinct, and
      appeared of a much darker hue than the waters of the ocean. I was
      evidently approaching it, and with great rapidity. Fancied I could again
      distinguish a strip of land to the eastward, and one also to the westward,
      but could not be certain. Weather moderate. Nothing of any consequence
      happened during the day. Went early to bed.
    

      “April 6th. Was surprised at finding the rim of ice at a very moderate
      distance, and an immense field of the same material stretching away off to
      the horizon in the north. It was evident that if the balloon held its
      present course, it would soon arrive above the Frozen Ocean, and I had now
      little doubt of ultimately seeing the Pole. During the whole of the day I
      continued to near the ice. Toward night the limits of my horizon very
      suddenly and materially increased, owing undoubtedly to the earth’s form
      being that of an oblate spheroid, and my arriving above the flattened
      regions in the vicinity of the Arctic circle. When darkness at length
      overtook me, I went to bed in great anxiety, fearing to pass over the
      object of so much curiosity when I should have no opportunity of observing
      it.
    

      “April 7th. Arose early, and, to my great joy, at length beheld what there
      could be no hesitation in supposing the northern Pole itself. It was
      there, beyond a doubt, and immediately beneath my feet; but, alas! I had
      now ascended to so vast a distance, that nothing could with accuracy be
      discerned. Indeed, to judge from the progression of the numbers indicating
      my various altitudes, respectively, at different periods, between six A.M.
      on the second of April, and twenty minutes before nine A.M. of the same
      day (at which time the barometer ran down), it might be fairly inferred
      that the balloon had now, at four o’clock in the morning of April the
      seventh, reached a height of not less, certainly, than 7,254 miles above
      the surface of the sea. This elevation may appear immense, but the
      estimate upon which it is calculated gave a result in all probability far
      inferior to the truth. At all events I undoubtedly beheld the whole of the
      earth’s major diameter; the entire northern hemisphere lay beneath me like
      a chart orthographically projected: and the great circle of the equator
      itself formed the boundary line of my horizon. Your Excellencies may,
      however, readily imagine that the confined regions hitherto unexplored
      within the limits of the Arctic circle, although situated directly beneath
      me, and therefore seen without any appearance of being foreshortened, were
      still, in themselves, comparatively too diminutive, and at too great a
      distance from the point of sight, to admit of any very accurate
      examination. Nevertheless, what could be seen was of a nature singular and
      exciting. Northwardly from that huge rim before mentioned, and which, with
      slight qualification, may be called the limit of human discovery in these
      regions, one unbroken, or nearly unbroken, sheet of ice continues to
      extend. In the first few degrees of this its progress, its surface is very
      sensibly flattened, farther on depressed into a plane, and finally,
      becoming not a little concave, it terminates, at the Pole itself, in a
      circular centre, sharply defined, whose apparent diameter subtended at the
      balloon an angle of about sixty-five seconds, and whose dusky hue, varying
      in intensity, was, at all times, darker than any other spot upon the
      visible hemisphere, and occasionally deepened into the most absolute and
      impenetrable blackness. Farther than this, little could be ascertained. By
      twelve o’clock the circular centre had materially decreased in
      circumference, and by seven P.M. I lost sight of it entirely; the balloon
      passing over the western limb of the ice, and floating away rapidly in the
      direction of the equator.
    

      “April 8th. Found a sensible diminution in the earth’s apparent diameter,
      besides a material alteration in its general color and appearance. The
      whole visible area partook in different degrees of a tint of pale yellow,
      and in some portions had acquired a brilliancy even painful to the eye. My
      view downward was also considerably impeded by the dense atmosphere in the
      vicinity of the surface being loaded with clouds, between whose masses I
      could only now and then obtain a glimpse of the earth itself. This
      difficulty of direct vision had troubled me more or less for the last
      forty-eight hours; but my present enormous elevation brought closer
      together, as it were, the floating bodies of vapor, and the inconvenience
      became, of course, more and more palpable in proportion to my ascent.
      Nevertheless, I could easily perceive that the balloon now hovered above
      the range of great lakes in the continent of North America, and was
      holding a course, due south, which would bring me to the tropics. This
      circumstance did not fail to give me the most heartful satisfaction, and I
      hailed it as a happy omen of ultimate success. Indeed, the direction I had
      hitherto taken, had filled me with uneasiness; for it was evident that,
      had I continued it much longer, there would have been no possibility of my
      arriving at the moon at all, whose orbit is inclined to the ecliptic at
      only the small angle of 5° 8′ 48″.
    

      “April 9th. To-day the earth’s diameter was greatly diminished, and the
      color of the surface assumed hourly a deeper tint of yellow. The balloon
      kept steadily on her course to the southward, and arrived, at nine P.M.,
      over the northern edge of the Mexican Gulf.
    

      “April 10th. I was suddenly aroused from slumber, about five o’clock this
      morning, by a loud, crackling, and terrific sound, for which I could in no
      manner account. It was of very brief duration, but, while it lasted
      resembled nothing in the world of which I had any previous experience. It
      is needless to say that I became excessively alarmed, having, in the first
      instance, attributed the noise to the bursting of the balloon. I examined
      all my apparatus, however, with great attention, and could discover
      nothing out of order. Spent a great part of the day in meditating upon an
      occurrence so extraordinary, but could find no means whatever of
      accounting for it. Went to bed dissatisfied, and in a state of great
      anxiety and agitation.
    