      “You are mistaken,” he interposed, “I am as well as I can expect to be
      under the excitement which I suffer. If you really wish me well, you will
      relieve this excitement.”
     

      “And how is this to be done?”
     

      “Very easily. Jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the
      hills, upon the main land, and, in this expedition we shall need the aid
      of some person in whom we can confide. You are the only one we can trust.
      Whether we succeed or fail, the excitement which you now perceive in me
      will be equally allayed.”
     

      “I am anxious to oblige you in any way,” I replied; “but do you mean to
      say that this infernal beetle has any connection with your expedition into
      the hills?”
     

      “It has.”
     

      “Then, Legrand, I can become a party to no such absurd proceeding.”
     

      “I am sorry—very sorry—for we shall have to try it by
      ourselves.”
     

      “Try it by yourselves! The man is surely mad!—but stay!—how
      long do you propose to be absent?”
     

      “Probably all night. We shall start immediately, and be back, at all
      events, by sunrise.”
     

      “And will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours
      is over, and the bug business (good God!) settled to your satisfaction,
      you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of your
      physician?”
     

      “Yes; I promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose.”
     

      With a heavy heart I accompanied my friend. We started about four o’clock—Legrand,
      Jupiter, the dog, and myself. Jupiter had with him the scythe and spades—the
      whole of which he insisted upon carrying—more through fear, it
      seemed to me, of trusting either of the implements within reach of his
      master, than from any excess of industry or complaisance. His demeanor was
      dogged in the extreme, and “dat deuced bug” were the sole words which
      escaped his lips during the journey. For my own part, I had charge of a
      couple of dark lanterns, while Legrand contented himself with the 
scarabæus
,
      which he carried attached to the end of a bit of whip-cord; twirling it to
      and fro, with the air of a conjuror, as he went. When I observed this
      last, plain evidence of my friend’s aberration of mind, I could scarcely
      refrain from tears. I thought it best, however, to humor his fancy, at
      least for the present, or until I could adopt some more energetic measures
      with a chance of success. In the mean time I endeavored, but all in vain,
      to sound him in regard to the object of the expedition. Having succeeded
      in inducing me to accompany him, he seemed unwilling to hold conversation
      upon any topic of minor importance, and to all my questions vouchsafed no
      other reply than “we shall see!”
     

      We crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff, and,
      ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land, proceeded in a
      northwesterly direction, through a tract of country excessively wild and
      desolate, where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen. Legrand led
      the way with decision; pausing only for an instant, here and there, to
      consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance upon
      a former occasion.
    

      In this manner we journeyed for about two hours, and the sun was just
      setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet seen.
      It was a species of table land, near the summit of an almost inaccessible
      hill, densely wooded from base to pinnacle, and interspersed with huge
      crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil, and in many cases were
      prevented from precipitating themselves into the valleys below, merely by
      the support of the trees against which they reclined. Deep ravines, in
      various directions, gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene.
    

      The natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with
      brambles, through which we soon discovered that it would have been
      impossible to force our way but for the scythe; and Jupiter, by direction
      of his master, proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an
      enormously tall tulip-tree, which stood, with some eight or ten oaks, upon
      the level, and far surpassed them all, and all other trees which I had
      then ever seen, in the beauty of its foliage and form, in the wide spread
      of its branches, and in the general majesty of its appearance. When we
      reached this tree, Legrand turned to Jupiter, and asked him if he thought
      he could climb it. The old man seemed a little staggered by the question,
      and for some moments made no reply. At length he approached the huge
      trunk, walked slowly around it, and examined it with minute attention.
      When he had completed his scrutiny, he merely said,
    

      “Yes, massa, Jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life.”
     

      “Then up with you as soon as possible, for it will soon be too dark to see
      what we are about.”
     

      “How far mus go up, massa?” inquired Jupiter.
    

      “Get up the main trunk first, and then I will tell you which way to go—and
      here—stop! take this beetle with you.”
     

      “De bug, Massa Will!—de goole-bug!” cried the negro, drawing back in
      dismay—“what for mus tote de bug way up de tree?—d—n if I do!”
     

      “If you are afraid, Jup, a great big negro like you, to take hold of a
      harmless little dead beetle, why you can carry it up by this string—but,
      if you do not take it up with you in some way, I shall be under the
      necessity of breaking your head with this shovel.”
     

      “What de matter now, massa?” said Jup, evidently shamed into compliance;
      “always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger. Was only funnin any how. 
Me

      feered de bug! what I keer for de bug?” Here he took cautiously hold of
      the extreme end of the string, and, maintaining the insect as far from his
      person as circumstances would permit, prepared to ascend the tree.