THE GOLD-BUG

What ho! what ho! this fellow is dancing mad!

He hath been bitten by the Tarantula.

—All in the Wrong.

      Many years ago, I contracted an intimacy with a Mr. William Legrand. He
      was of an ancient Huguenot family, and had once been wealthy; but a series
      of misfortunes had reduced him to want. To avoid the mortification
      consequent upon his disasters, he left New Orleans, the city of his
      forefathers, and took up his residence at Sullivan’s Island, near
      Charleston, South Carolina.
    

      This Island is a very singular one. It consists of little else than the
      sea sand, and is about three miles long. Its breadth at no point exceeds
      a quarter of a mile. It is separated from the main land by a scarcely
      perceptible creek, oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and
      slime, a favorite resort of the marsh hen. The vegetation, as might be
      supposed, is scant, or at least dwarfish. No trees of any magnitude are
      to be seen. Near the western extremity, where Fort Moultrie stands, and
      where are some miserable frame buildings, tenanted, during summer, by the
      fugitives from Charleston dust and fever, may be found, indeed, the
      bristly palmetto; but the whole island, with the exception of this
      western point, and a line of hard, white beach on the seacoast, is
      covered with a dense undergrowth of the sweet myrtle, so much prized by
      the horticulturists of England. The shrub here often attains the height
      of fifteen or twenty feet, and forms an almost impenetrable coppice,
      burthening the air with its fragrance.
    

      In the inmost recesses of this coppice, not far from the eastern or more
      remote end of the island, Legrand had built himself a small hut, which he
      occupied when I first, by mere accident, made his acquaintance. This soon
      ripened into friendship—for there was much in the recluse to excite
      interest and esteem. I found him well educated, with unusual powers of
      mind, but infected with misanthropy, and subject to perverse moods of
      alternate enthusiasm and melancholy. He had with him many books, but
      rarely employed them. His chief amusements were gunning and fishing, or
      sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles, in quest of shells or
      entomological specimens—his collection of the latter might have
      been envied by a Swammerdamm. In these excursions he was usually
      accompanied by an old negro, called Jupiter, who had been manumitted
      before the reverses of the family, but who could be induced, neither by
      threats nor by promises, to abandon what he considered his right of
      attendance upon the footsteps of his young “Massa Will.” It is not
      improbable that the relatives of Legrand, conceiving him to be somewhat
      unsettled in intellect, had contrived to instil this obstinacy into
      Jupiter, with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the wanderer.
    

      The winters in the latitude of Sullivan’s Island are seldom very
      severe, and in the fall of the year it is a rare event indeed when a fire
      is considered necessary. About the middle of October, 18—, there
      occurred, however, a day of remarkable chilliness. Just before sunset I
      scrambled my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend, whom I
      had not visited for several weeks—my residence being, at that time,
      in Charleston, a distance of nine miles from the island, while the
      facilities of passage and re-passage were very far behind those of the
      present day. Upon reaching the hut I rapped, as was my custom, and
      getting no reply, sought for the key where I knew it was secreted,
      unlocked the door and went in. A fine fire was blazing upon the hearth.
      It was a novelty, and by no means an ungrateful one. I threw off an
      overcoat, took an arm-chair by the crackling logs, and awaited patiently
      the arrival of my hosts.
    

      Soon after dark they arrived, and gave me a most cordial welcome.
      Jupiter, grinning from ear to ear, bustled about to prepare some
      marsh-hens for supper. Legrand was in one of his fits—how else
      shall I term them?—of enthusiasm. He had found an unknown bivalve,
      forming a new genus, and, more than this, he had hunted down and secured,
      with Jupiter’s assistance, a 
scarabæus
 which he believed to
      be totally new, but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on
      the morrow.
    

      “And why not to-night?” I asked, rubbing my hands over the
      blaze, and wishing the whole tribe of 
scarabæi
 at the devil.
    

      “Ah, if I had only known you were here!” said Legrand,
      “but it’s so long since I saw you; and how could I foresee
      that you would pay me a visit this very night of all others? As I was
      coming home I met Lieutenant G——, from the fort, and, very
      foolishly, I lent him the bug; so it will be impossible for you to see it
      until the morning. Stay here to-night, and I will send Jup down for it at
      sunrise. It is the loveliest thing in creation!”
     

      “What?—sunrise?”
     

      “Nonsense! no!—the bug. It is of a brilliant gold color—about
      the size of a large hickory-nut—with two jet black spots near one
      extremity of the back, and another, somewhat longer, at the other. The
      
antennæ
 are—”
     

      “Dey aint no tin in him, Massa Will, I keep a tellin on you,” here
      interrupted Jupiter; “de bug is a goole bug, solid, ebery bit of him,
      inside and all, sep him wing—neber feel half so hebby a bug in my
      life.”
     

      “Well, suppose it is, Jup,” replied Legrand, somewhat more earnestly, it
      seemed to me, than the case demanded, “is that any reason for your letting
      the birds burn? The color”—here he turned to me—“is really
      almost enough to warrant Jupiter’s idea. You never saw a more brilliant
      metallic lustre than the scales emit—but of this you cannot judge
      till tomorrow. In the mean time I can give you some idea of the shape.”
       Saying this, he seated himself at a small table, on which were a pen and
      ink, but no paper. He looked for some in a drawer, but found none.
    

      “Never mind,” said he at length, “this will answer;” and he drew from his
      waistcoat pocket a scrap of what I took to be very dirty foolscap, and
      made upon it a rough drawing with the pen. While he did this, I retained
      my seat by the fire, for I was still chilly. When the design was complete,
      he handed it to me without rising. As I received it, a loud growl was
      heard, succeeded by a scratching at the door. Jupiter opened it, and a
      large Newfoundland, belonging to Legrand, rushed in, leaped upon my
      shoulders, and loaded me with caresses; for I had shown him much attention
      during previous visits. When his gambols were over, I looked at the paper,
      and, to speak the truth, found myself not a little puzzled at what my
      friend had depicted.
    

      “Well!” I said, after contemplating it for some minutes,
      “this 
is
 a strange 
scarabæus
, I must confess: new to
      me: never saw anything like it before—unless it was a skull, or a
      death’s-head—which it more nearly resembles than anything
      else that has come under 
my
 observation.”
     

      “A death’s-head!” echoed Legrand. “Oh—yes—well, it has
      something of that appearance upon paper, no doubt. The two upper black
      spots look like eyes, eh? and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth—and
      then the shape of the whole is oval.”
     

      “Perhaps so,” said I; “but, Legrand, I fear you are no artist. I must wait
      until I see the beetle itself, if I am to form any idea of its personal
      appearance.”
     

      “Well, I don’t know,” said he, a little nettled, “I draw tolerably—
should

      do it at least—have had good masters, and flatter myself that I am
      not quite a blockhead.”
     

      “But, my dear fellow, you are joking then,” said I, “this is a very
      passable 
skull
—indeed, I may say that it is a very 
excellent
 skull,
      according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology—and
      your 
scarabæus
 must be the queerest 
scarabæus
 in the world
      if it resembles it. Why, we may get up a very thrilling bit of
      superstition upon this hint. I presume you will call the bug 
scarabæus
      caput hominis
, or something of that kind—there are many similar
      titles in the Natural Histories. But where are the 
antennæ
 you
      spoke of?”
     

      “The 
antennæ!
” said Legrand, who seemed to be getting unaccountably
      warm upon the subject; “I am sure you must see the 
antennæ
. I made
      them as distinct as they are in the original insect, and I presume that is
      sufficient.”
     

      “Well, well,” I said, “perhaps you have—still I don’t see them;” and
      I handed him the paper without additional remark, not wishing to ruffle
      his temper; but I was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken; his
      ill humor puzzled me—and, as for the drawing of the beetle, there
      were positively 
no antennæ
 visible, and the whole 
did
 bear a very
      close resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death’s-head.
    

      He received the paper very peevishly, and was about to crumple it,
      apparently to throw it in the fire, when a casual glance at the design
      seemed suddenly to rivet his attention. In an instant his face grew
      violently red—in another as excessively pale. For some minutes he
      continued to scrutinize the drawing minutely where he sat. At length he
      arose, took a candle from the table, and proceeded to seat himself upon a
      sea-chest in the farthest corner of the room. Here again he made an
      anxious examination of the paper; turning it in all directions. He said
      nothing, however, and his conduct greatly astonished me; yet I thought it
      prudent not to exacerbate the growing moodiness of his temper by any
      comment. Presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet, placed the paper
      carefully in it, and deposited both in a writing-desk, which he locked. He
      now grew more composed in his demeanor; but his original air of enthusiasm
      had quite disappeared. Yet he seemed not so much sulky as abstracted. As
      the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in reverie, from
      which no sallies of mine could arouse him. It had been my intention to
      pass the night at the hut, as I had frequently done before, but, seeing my
      host in this mood, I deemed it proper to take leave. He did not press me
      to remain, but, as I departed, he shook my hand with even more than his
      usual cordiality.
    

      It was about a month after this (and during the interval I had seen
      nothing of Legrand) when I received a visit, at Charleston, from his man,
      Jupiter. I had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited, and I
      feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend.
    

      “Well, Jup,” said I, “what is the matter now?—how is your master?”
     

      “Why, to speak de troof, massa, him not so berry well as mought be.”
     

      “Not well! I am truly sorry to hear it. What does he complain of?”
     

      “Dar! dat’s it!—him neber ’plain of notin’—but him berry sick
      for all dat.”
     

      “
Very
 sick, Jupiter!—why didn’t you say so at once? Is he confined
      to bed?”
     

      “No, dat he aint!—he aint ’fin’d nowhar—dat’s just whar de shoe
      pinch—my mind is got to be berry hebby ’bout poor Massa Will.”
     

      “Jupiter, I should like to understand what it is you are talking about.
      You say your master is sick. Hasn’t he told you what ails him?”
     

      “Why, massa, ’taint worf while for to git mad about de matter—Massa
      Will say noffin at all aint de matter wid him—but den what make him
      go about looking dis here way, wid he head down and he soldiers up, and as
      white as a gose? And den he keep a syphon all de time—”
     

      “Keeps a what, Jupiter?”
     

      “Keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate—de queerest figgurs I
      ebber did see. Ise gittin’ to be skeered, I tell you. Hab for to keep
      mighty tight eye ’pon him ’noovers. Todder day he gib me slip ’fore de sun up
      and was gone de whole ob de blessed day. I had a big stick ready cut for
      to gib him deuced good beating when he did come—but Ise sich a fool
      dat I hadn’t de heart arter all—he look so berry poorly.”
     

      “Eh?—what?—ah yes!—upon the whole I think you had better
      not be too severe with the poor fellow—don’t flog him, Jupiter—he
      can’t very well stand it—but can you form no idea of what has
      occasioned this illness, or rather this change of conduct? Has anything
      unpleasant happened since I saw you?”
     

      “No, massa, dey aint bin noffin onpleasant 
since
 den—‘twas 
’fore
 den
      I’m feared—‘twas de berry day you was dare.”
     

      “How? what do you mean?”
     

      “Why, massa, I mean de bug—dare now.”
     

      “The what?”
     

      “De bug,—I’m berry sartain dat Massa Will bin bit somewhere ’bout de
      head by dat goole-bug.”
     

      “And what cause have you, Jupiter, for such a supposition?”
     

      “Claws enuff, massa, and mouff too. I nebber did see sick a deuced bug—he
      kick and he bite ebery ting what cum near him. Massa Will cotch him fuss,
      but had for to let him go ’gin mighty quick, I tell you—den was de
      time he must ha’ got de bite. I did n’t like de look oh de bug mouff,
      myself, no how, so I would n’t take hold ob him wid my finger, but I cotch
      him wid a piece ob paper dat I found. I rap him up in de paper and stuff
      piece ob it in he mouff—dat was de way.”
     

      “And you think, then, that your master was really bitten by the beetle,
      and that the bite made him sick?”
     

      “I do n’t tink noffin about it—I nose it. What make him dream ’bout
      de goole so much, if ’taint cause he bit by de goole-bug? Ise heerd ’bout
      dem goole-bugs fore dis.”
     

      “But how do you know he dreams about gold?”
     

      “How I know? why ’cause he talk about it in he sleep—dat’s how I
      nose.”
     

      “Well, Jup, perhaps you are right; but to what fortunate circumstance am I
      to attribute the honor of a visit from you to-day?”
     

      “What de matter, massa?”
     

      “Did you bring any message from Mr. Legrand?”
     

      “No, massa, I bring dis here pissel;” and here Jupiter handed me a note
      which ran thus:
    

      “M
Y
 D
EAR
 ——Why have I not
      seen you for so long a time? I hope you have not been so foolish as to
      take offence at any little 
brusquerie
 of mine; but no, that is
      improbable. Since I saw you I have had great cause for anxiety. I have
      something to tell you, yet scarcely know how to tell it, or whether I
      should tell it at all.
    

      “I have not been quite well for some days past, and poor old Jup annoys me,
      almost beyond endurance, by his well-meant attentions. Would you believe
      it?—he had prepared a huge stick, the other day, with which to
      chastise me for giving him the slip, and spending the day, 
solus
,
      among the hills on the main land. I verily believe that my ill looks alone
      saved me a flogging.
    

      “I have made no addition to my cabinet since we met.
    

      “If you can, in any way, make it convenient, come over with Jupiter. 
Do

      come. I wish to see you to-
night
, upon business of importance. I
      assure you that it is of the 
highest
 importance.
    

“Ever yours,

“W
ILLIAM
 L
EGRAND
”.

      There was something in the tone of this note which gave me great
      uneasiness. Its whole style differed materially from that of Legrand. What
      could he be dreaming of? What new crotchet possessed his excitable brain?
      What “business of the highest importance” could he possibly have to
      transact? Jupiter’s account of him boded no good. I dreaded lest the
      continued pressure of misfortune had, at length, fairly unsettled the
      reason of my friend. Without a moment’s hesitation, therefore, I prepared
      to accompany the negro.
    

      Upon reaching the wharf, I noticed a scythe and three spades, all
      apparently new, lying in the bottom of the boat in which we were to
      embark.
    

      “What is the meaning of all this, Jup?” I inquired.
    

      “Him syfe, massa, and spade.”
     

      “Very true; but what are they doing here?”
     

      “Him de syfe and de spade what Massa Will sis pon my buying for him in de
      town, and de debbil’s own lot of money I had to gib for ’em.”
     

      “But what, in the name of all that is mysterious, is your ‘Massa Will’
      going to do with scythes and spades?”
     

      “Dat’s more dan 
I
 know, and debbil take me if I don’t b’lieve ’tis more dan
      he know, too. But it’s all cum ob do bug.”
     

      Finding that no satisfaction was to be obtained of Jupiter, whose whole
      intellect seemed to be absorbed by “de bug,” I now stepped into the boat
      and made sail. With a fair and strong breeze we soon ran into the little
      cove to the northward of Fort Moultrie, and a walk of some two miles
      brought us to the hut. It was about three in the afternoon when we
      arrived. Legrand had been awaiting us in eager expectation. He grasped my
      hand with a nervous empressement which alarmed me and strengthened the
      suspicions already entertained. His countenance was pale even to
      ghastliness, and his deep-set eyes glared with unnatural lustre. After
      some inquiries respecting his health, I asked him, not knowing what better
      to say, if he had yet obtained the 
scarabæus
 from Lieutenant
      G——.
    

      “Oh, yes,” he replied, coloring violently, “I got it from him the next
      morning. Nothing should tempt me to part with that 
scarabæus
. Do
      you know that Jupiter is quite right about it?”
     

      “In what way?” I asked, with a sad foreboding at heart.
    

      “In supposing it to be a bug of 
real gold
.” He said this with an air of
      profound seriousness, and I felt inexpressibly shocked.
    

      “This bug is to make my fortune,” he continued, with a triumphant smile,
      “to reinstate me in my family possessions. Is it any wonder, then, that I
      prize it? Since Fortune has thought fit to bestow it upon me, I have only
      to use it properly and I shall arrive at the gold of which it is the
      index. Jupiter; bring me that 
scarabæus!
”
     

      “What! de bug, massa? I’d rudder not go fer trubble dat bug—you mus’
      git him for your own self.” Hereupon Legrand arose, with a grave and
      stately air, and brought me the beetle from a glass case in which it was
      enclosed. It was a beautiful scarabæus, and, at that time, unknown
      to naturalists—of course a great prize in a scientific point of
      view. There were two round, black spots near one extremity of the back,
      and a long one near the other. The scales were exceedingly hard and
      glossy, with all the appearance of burnished gold. The weight of the
      insect was very remarkable, and, taking all things into consideration, I
      could hardly blame Jupiter for his opinion respecting it; but what to make
      of Legrand’s concordance with that opinion, I could not, for the life of
      me, tell.
    

      “I sent for you,” said he, in a grandiloquent tone, when I had completed
      my examination of the beetle, “I sent for you, that I might have your
      counsel and assistance in furthering the views of Fate and of the bug—”
    

      “My dear Legrand,” I cried, interrupting him, “you are certainly unwell,
      and had better use some little precautions. You shall go to bed, and I
      will remain with you a few days, until you get over this. You are feverish
      and—”
    

      “Feel my pulse,” said he.
    

      I felt it, and, to say the truth, found not the slightest indication of
      fever.
    

      “But you may be ill and yet have no fever. Allow me this once to prescribe
      for you. In the first place, go to bed. In the next—”
    

      “You are mistaken,” he interposed, “I am as well as I can expect to be
      under the excitement which I suffer. If you really wish me well, you will
      relieve this excitement.”
     

      “And how is this to be done?”
     

      “Very easily. Jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the
      hills, upon the main land, and, in this expedition we shall need the aid
      of some person in whom we can confide. You are the only one we can trust.
      Whether we succeed or fail, the excitement which you now perceive in me
      will be equally allayed.”
     

      “I am anxious to oblige you in any way,” I replied; “but do you mean to
      say that this infernal beetle has any connection with your expedition into
      the hills?”
     

      “It has.”
     

      “Then, Legrand, I can become a party to no such absurd proceeding.”
     

      “I am sorry—very sorry—for we shall have to try it by
      ourselves.”
     

      “Try it by yourselves! The man is surely mad!—but stay!—how
      long do you propose to be absent?”
     

      “Probably all night. We shall start immediately, and be back, at all
      events, by sunrise.”
     

      “And will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours
      is over, and the bug business (good God!) settled to your satisfaction,
      you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of your
      physician?”
     

      “Yes; I promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose.”
     

      With a heavy heart I accompanied my friend. We started about four o’clock—Legrand,
      Jupiter, the dog, and myself. Jupiter had with him the scythe and spades—the
      whole of which he insisted upon carrying—more through fear, it
      seemed to me, of trusting either of the implements within reach of his
      master, than from any excess of industry or complaisance. His demeanor was
      dogged in the extreme, and “dat deuced bug” were the sole words which
      escaped his lips during the journey. For my own part, I had charge of a
      couple of dark lanterns, while Legrand contented himself with the 
scarabæus
,
      which he carried attached to the end of a bit of whip-cord; twirling it to
      and fro, with the air of a conjuror, as he went. When I observed this
      last, plain evidence of my friend’s aberration of mind, I could scarcely
      refrain from tears. I thought it best, however, to humor his fancy, at
      least for the present, or until I could adopt some more energetic measures
      with a chance of success. In the mean time I endeavored, but all in vain,
      to sound him in regard to the object of the expedition. Having succeeded
      in inducing me to accompany him, he seemed unwilling to hold conversation
      upon any topic of minor importance, and to all my questions vouchsafed no
      other reply than “we shall see!”
     

      We crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff, and,
      ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land, proceeded in a
      northwesterly direction, through a tract of country excessively wild and
      desolate, where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen. Legrand led
      the way with decision; pausing only for an instant, here and there, to
      consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance upon
      a former occasion.
    

      In this manner we journeyed for about two hours, and the sun was just
      setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet seen.
      It was a species of table land, near the summit of an almost inaccessible
      hill, densely wooded from base to pinnacle, and interspersed with huge
      crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil, and in many cases were
      prevented from precipitating themselves into the valleys below, merely by
      the support of the trees against which they reclined. Deep ravines, in
      various directions, gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene.
    

      The natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with
      brambles, through which we soon discovered that it would have been
      impossible to force our way but for the scythe; and Jupiter, by direction
      of his master, proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an
      enormously tall tulip-tree, which stood, with some eight or ten oaks, upon
      the level, and far surpassed them all, and all other trees which I had
      then ever seen, in the beauty of its foliage and form, in the wide spread
      of its branches, and in the general majesty of its appearance. When we
      reached this tree, Legrand turned to Jupiter, and asked him if he thought
      he could climb it. The old man seemed a little staggered by the question,
      and for some moments made no reply. At length he approached the huge
      trunk, walked slowly around it, and examined it with minute attention.
      When he had completed his scrutiny, he merely said,
    

      “Yes, massa, Jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life.”
     

      “Then up with you as soon as possible, for it will soon be too dark to see
      what we are about.”
     

      “How far mus go up, massa?” inquired Jupiter.
    

      “Get up the main trunk first, and then I will tell you which way to go—and
      here—stop! take this beetle with you.”
     

      “De bug, Massa Will!—de goole-bug!” cried the negro, drawing back in
      dismay—“what for mus tote de bug way up de tree?—d—n if I do!”
     

      “If you are afraid, Jup, a great big negro like you, to take hold of a
      harmless little dead beetle, why you can carry it up by this string—but,
      if you do not take it up with you in some way, I shall be under the
      necessity of breaking your head with this shovel.”
     

      “What de matter now, massa?” said Jup, evidently shamed into compliance;
      “always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger. Was only funnin any how. 
Me

      feered de bug! what I keer for de bug?” Here he took cautiously hold of
      the extreme end of the string, and, maintaining the insect as far from his
      person as circumstances would permit, prepared to ascend the tree.