      Driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot
      where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape
      measure. Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the tree
      which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg, and
      thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established by the
      two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty feet—Jupiter
      clearing away the brambles with the scythe. At the spot thus attained a
      second peg was driven, and about this, as a centre, a rude circle, about
      four feet in diameter, described. Taking now a spade himself, and giving
      one to Jupiter and one to me, Legrand begged us to set about digging as
      quickly as possible.
    

      To speak the truth, I had no especial relish for such amusement at any
      time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined
      it; for the night was coming on, and I felt much fatigued with the
      exercise already taken; but I saw no mode of escape, and was fearful of
      disturbing my poor friend’s equanimity by a refusal. Could I have
      depended, indeed, upon Jupiter’s aid, I would have had no hesitation in
      attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured of
      the old negro’s disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any
      circumstances, in a personal contest with his master. I made no doubt that
      the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern
      superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received
      confirmation by the finding of the 
scarabæus
, or, perhaps, by
      Jupiter’s obstinacy in maintaining it to be “a bug of real gold.” A mind
      disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such suggestions—especially
      if chiming in with favorite preconceived ideas—and then I called to
      mind the poor fellow’s speech about the beetle’s being “the index of his
      fortune.” Upon the whole, I was sadly vexed and puzzled, but, at length, I
      concluded to make a virtue of necessity—to dig with a good will, and
      thus the sooner to convince the visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the
      fallacy of the opinions he entertained.
    

      The lanterns having been lit, we all fell to work with a zeal worthy a
      more rational cause; and, as the glare fell upon our persons and
      implements, I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we composed,
      and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared to any
      interloper who, by chance, might have stumbled upon our whereabouts.
    

      We dug very steadily for two hours. Little was said; and our chief
      embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding interest
      in our proceedings. He, at length, became so obstreperous that we grew
      fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity—or,
      rather, this was the apprehension of Legrand;—for myself, I should
      have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the
      wanderer home. The noise was, at length, very effectually silenced by
      Jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation,
      tied the brute’s mouth up with one of his suspenders, and then returned,
      with a grave chuckle, to his task.
    

      When the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five feet,
      and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest. A general pause ensued,
      and I began to hope that the farce was at an end. Legrand, however,
      although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow thoughtfully and
      recommenced. We had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter, and
      now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the farther depth of two
      feet. Still nothing appeared. The gold-seeker, whom I sincerely pitied, at
      length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest disappointment imprinted
      upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly and reluctantly, to put on his
      coat, which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor. In the mean
      time I made no remark. Jupiter, at a signal from his master, began to
      gather up his tools. This done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we
      turned in profound silence towards home.
    

      We had taken, perhaps, a dozen steps in this direction, when, with a loud
      oath, Legrand strode up to Jupiter, and seized him by the collar. The
      astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent, let fall
      the spades, and fell upon his knees.
    

      “You scoundrel,” said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his
      clenched teeth—“you infernal black villain!—speak, I tell you!—answer
      me this instant, without prevarication!—which—which is your
      left eye?”
     

      “Oh, my golly, Massa Will! aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?” roared
      the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision,
      and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate
      dread of his master’s attempt at a gouge.
    

      “I thought so!—I knew it! hurrah!” vociferated Legrand, letting the
      negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the
      astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely,
      from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master.
    

      “Come! we must go back,” said the latter, “the game’s not up yet;” and he
      again led the way to the tulip-tree.
    

      “Jupiter,” said he, when we reached its foot, “come here! was the skull
      nailed to the limb with the face outwards, or with the face to the limb?”
     

      “De face was out, massa, so dat de crows could get at de eyes good, widout
      any trouble.”
     

      “Well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the
      beetle?”—here Legrand touched each of Jupiter’s eyes.
    

      “’Twas dis eye, massa—de lef eye—jis as you tell me,” and here
      it was his right eye that the negro indicated.
    

      “That will do—we must try it again.”
     

      Here my friend, about whose madness I now saw, or fancied that I saw,
      certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot where
      the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward of its
      former position. Taking, now, the tape measure from the nearest point of
      the trunk to the peg, as before, and continuing the extension in a
      straight line to the distance of fifty feet, a spot was indicated,
      removed, by several yards, from the point at which we had been digging.
    