In youth, the tulip-tree, or 
Liriodendron Tulipferum
, the most magnificent
      of American foresters, has a trunk peculiarly smooth, and often rises to a
      great height without lateral branches; but, in its riper age, the bark
      becomes gnarled and uneven, while many short limbs make their appearance
      on the stem. Thus the difficulty of ascension, in the present case, lay
      more in semblance than in reality. Embracing the huge cylinder, as closely
      as possible, with his arms and knees, seizing with his hands some
      projections, and resting his naked toes upon others, Jupiter, after one or
      two narrow escapes from falling, at length wriggled himself into the first
      great fork, and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually
      accomplished. The risk of the achievement was, in fact, now over, although
      the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground.
    

      “Which way mus go now, Massa Will?” he asked.
    

      “Keep up the largest branch—the one on this side,” said Legrand. The
      negro obeyed him promptly, and apparently with but little trouble;
      ascending higher and higher, until no glimpse of his squat figure could be
      obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it. Presently his voice
      was heard in a sort of halloo.
    

      “How much fudder is got for go?”
     

      “How high up are you?” asked Legrand.
    

      “Ebber so fur,” replied the negro; “can see de sky fru de top ob de tree.”
     

      “Never mind the sky, but attend to what I say. Look down the trunk and
      count the limbs below you on this side. How many limbs have you passed?”
     

      “One, two, tree, four, fibe—I done pass fibe big limb, massa, pon
      dis side.”
     

      “Then go one limb higher.”
     

      In a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh
      limb was attained.
    

      “Now, Jup,” cried Legrand, evidently much excited, “I want you to work
      your way out upon that limb as far as you can. If you see anything
      strange, let me know.” By this time what little doubt I might have
      entertained of my poor friend’s insanity, was put finally at rest. I had
      no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy, and I became
      seriously anxious about getting him home. While I was pondering upon what
      was best to be done, Jupiter’s voice was again heard.
    

      “Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far—’tis dead limb putty
      much all de way.”
     

      “Did you say it was a dead limb, Jupiter?” cried Legrand in a quavering
      voice.
    

      “Yes, massa, him dead as de door-nail—done up for sartain—done
      departed dis here life.”
     

      “What in the name heaven shall I do?” asked Legrand, seemingly in the
      greatest distress.
     

      “Do!” said I, glad of an opportunity to interpose a word,
      “why come home and go to bed. Come now!—that’s a fine
      fellow. It’s getting late, and, besides, you remember your
      promise.”
     

      “Jupiter,” cried he, without heeding me in the least, “do you hear me?”
     

      “Yes, Massa Will, hear you ebber so plain.”
     

      “Try the wood well, then, with your knife, and see if you think it very
      rotten.”
     

      “Him rotten, massa, sure nuff,” replied the negro in a few moments, “but
      not so berry rotten as mought be. Mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb
      by myself, dat’s true.”
     

      “By yourself!—what do you mean?”
     

      “Why I mean de bug. ’Tis 
berry
 hebby bug. Spose I drop him down fuss, and
      den de limb won’t break wid just de weight ob one nigger.”
     

      “You infernal scoundrel!” cried Legrand, apparently much relieved, “what
      do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that? As sure as you drop that
      beetle I’ll break your neck. Look here, Jupiter, do you hear me?”
     

      “Yes, massa, needn’t hollo at poor nigger dat style.”
     

      “Well! now listen!—if you will venture out on the limb as far as you
      think safe, and not let go the beetle, I’ll make you a present of a silver
      dollar as soon as you get down.”
     

      “I’m gwine, Massa Will—deed I is,” replied the negro very promptly—“mos
      out to the eend now.”
     

      “
Out to the end!
” here fairly screamed Legrand, “do you say you are out to
      the end of that limb?”
     

      “Soon be to de eend, massa,—o-o-o-o-oh! Lor-gol-a-marcy! what is dis
      here pon de tree?”
     

      “Well!” cried Legrand, highly delighted, “what is it?”
     

      “Why taint noffin but a skull—somebody bin lef him head up de tree,
      and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off.”
     

      “A skull, you say!—very well—how is it fastened to the limb?—what
      holds it on?”
     

      “Sure nuff, massa; mus look. Why dis berry curous sarcumstance, pon my
      word—dare’s a great big nail in de skull, what fastens ob it on to
      de tree.”
     

      “Well now, Jupiter, do exactly as I tell you—do you hear?”
     

      “Yes, massa.”
     

      “Pay attention, then—find the left eye of the skull.”
     

      “Hum! hoo! dat’s good! why dare aint no eye lef at all.”
     

      “Curse your stupidity! do you know your right hand from your left?”
     

      “Yes, I knows dat—knows all about dat—’tis my lef hand what I
      chops de wood wid.”
     

      “To be sure! you are left-handed; and your left eye is on the same side as
      your left hand. Now, I suppose, you can find the left eye of the skull, or
      the place where the left eye has been. Have you found it?”
     

      Here was a long pause. At length the negro asked,
    

      “Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull,
      too?—cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all—nebber
      mind! I got de lef eye now—here de lef eye! what mus do wid it?”
     

      “Let the beetle drop through it, as far as the string will reach—but
      be careful and not let go your hold of the string.”
     

      “All dat done, Massa Will; mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole—look
      out for him dare below!”
     

      During this colloquy no portion of Jupiter’s person could be seen; but the
      beetle, which he had suffered to descend, was now visible at the end of
      the string, and glistened, like a globe of burnished gold, in the last
      rays of the setting sun, some of which still faintly illumined the
      eminence upon which we stood. The 
scarabæus
 hung quite clear of any
      branches, and, if allowed to fall, would have fallen at our feet. Legrand
      immediately took the scythe, and cleared with it a circular space, three
      or four yards in diameter, just beneath the insect, and, having
      accomplished this, ordered Jupiter to let go the string and come down from
      the tree.
    

      Driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot
      where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape
      measure. Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the tree
      which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg, and
      thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established by the
      two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty feet—Jupiter
      clearing away the brambles with the scythe. At the spot thus attained a
      second peg was driven, and about this, as a centre, a rude circle, about
      four feet in diameter, described. Taking now a spade himself, and giving
      one to Jupiter and one to me, Legrand begged us to set about digging as
      quickly as possible.
    

      To speak the truth, I had no especial relish for such amusement at any
      time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined
      it; for the night was coming on, and I felt much fatigued with the
      exercise already taken; but I saw no mode of escape, and was fearful of
      disturbing my poor friend’s equanimity by a refusal. Could I have
      depended, indeed, upon Jupiter’s aid, I would have had no hesitation in
      attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured of
      the old negro’s disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any
      circumstances, in a personal contest with his master. I made no doubt that
      the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern
      superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received
      confirmation by the finding of the 
scarabæus
, or, perhaps, by
      Jupiter’s obstinacy in maintaining it to be “a bug of real gold.” A mind
      disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such suggestions—especially
      if chiming in with favorite preconceived ideas—and then I called to
      mind the poor fellow’s speech about the beetle’s being “the index of his
      fortune.” Upon the whole, I was sadly vexed and puzzled, but, at length, I
      concluded to make a virtue of necessity—to dig with a good will, and
      thus the sooner to convince the visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the
      fallacy of the opinions he entertained.
    

      The lanterns having been lit, we all fell to work with a zeal worthy a
      more rational cause; and, as the glare fell upon our persons and
      implements, I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we composed,
      and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared to any
      interloper who, by chance, might have stumbled upon our whereabouts.
    

      We dug very steadily for two hours. Little was said; and our chief
      embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding interest
      in our proceedings. He, at length, became so obstreperous that we grew
      fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity—or,
      rather, this was the apprehension of Legrand;—for myself, I should
      have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the
      wanderer home. The noise was, at length, very effectually silenced by
      Jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation,
      tied the brute’s mouth up with one of his suspenders, and then returned,
      with a grave chuckle, to his task.
    

      When the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five feet,
      and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest. A general pause ensued,
      and I began to hope that the farce was at an end. Legrand, however,
      although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow thoughtfully and
      recommenced. We had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter, and
      now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the farther depth of two
      feet. Still nothing appeared. The gold-seeker, whom I sincerely pitied, at
      length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest disappointment imprinted
      upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly and reluctantly, to put on his
      coat, which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor. In the mean
      time I made no remark. Jupiter, at a signal from his master, began to
      gather up his tools. This done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we
      turned in profound silence towards home.
    

      We had taken, perhaps, a dozen steps in this direction, when, with a loud
      oath, Legrand strode up to Jupiter, and seized him by the collar. The
      astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent, let fall
      the spades, and fell upon his knees.
    

      “You scoundrel,” said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his
      clenched teeth—“you infernal black villain!—speak, I tell you!—answer
      me this instant, without prevarication!—which—which is your
      left eye?”
     

      “Oh, my golly, Massa Will! aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?” roared
      the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision,
      and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate
      dread of his master’s attempt at a gouge.
    

      “I thought so!—I knew it! hurrah!” vociferated Legrand, letting the
      negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the
      astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely,
      from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master.
    

      “Come! we must go back,” said the latter, “the game’s not up yet;” and he
      again led the way to the tulip-tree.
    

      “Jupiter,” said he, when we reached its foot, “come here! was the skull
      nailed to the limb with the face outwards, or with the face to the limb?”
     

      “De face was out, massa, so dat de crows could get at de eyes good, widout
      any trouble.”
     

      “Well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the
      beetle?”—here Legrand touched each of Jupiter’s eyes.
    

      “’Twas dis eye, massa—de lef eye—jis as you tell me,” and here
      it was his right eye that the negro indicated.
    

      “That will do—we must try it again.”
     

      Here my friend, about whose madness I now saw, or fancied that I saw,
      certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot where
      the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward of its
      former position. Taking, now, the tape measure from the nearest point of
      the trunk to the peg, as before, and continuing the extension in a
      straight line to the distance of fifty feet, a spot was indicated,
      removed, by several yards, from the point at which we had been digging.
    