In youth, the tulip-tree, or 
Liriodendron Tulipferum
, the most magnificent
      of American foresters, has a trunk peculiarly smooth, and often rises to a
      great height without lateral branches; but, in its riper age, the bark
      becomes gnarled and uneven, while many short limbs make their appearance
      on the stem. Thus the difficulty of ascension, in the present case, lay
      more in semblance than in reality. Embracing the huge cylinder, as closely
      as possible, with his arms and knees, seizing with his hands some
      projections, and resting his naked toes upon others, Jupiter, after one or
      two narrow escapes from falling, at length wriggled himself into the first
      great fork, and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually
      accomplished. The risk of the achievement was, in fact, now over, although
      the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground.
    

      “Which way mus go now, Massa Will?” he asked.
    

      “Keep up the largest branch—the one on this side,” said Legrand. The
      negro obeyed him promptly, and apparently with but little trouble;
      ascending higher and higher, until no glimpse of his squat figure could be
      obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it. Presently his voice
      was heard in a sort of halloo.
    

      “How much fudder is got for go?”
     

      “How high up are you?” asked Legrand.
    

      “Ebber so fur,” replied the negro; “can see de sky fru de top ob de tree.”
     

      “Never mind the sky, but attend to what I say. Look down the trunk and
      count the limbs below you on this side. How many limbs have you passed?”
     

      “One, two, tree, four, fibe—I done pass fibe big limb, massa, pon
      dis side.”
     

      “Then go one limb higher.”
     

      In a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh
      limb was attained.
    

      “Now, Jup,” cried Legrand, evidently much excited, “I want you to work
      your way out upon that limb as far as you can. If you see anything
      strange, let me know.” By this time what little doubt I might have
      entertained of my poor friend’s insanity, was put finally at rest. I had
      no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy, and I became
      seriously anxious about getting him home. While I was pondering upon what
      was best to be done, Jupiter’s voice was again heard.
    

      “Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far—’tis dead limb putty
      much all de way.”
     

      “Did you say it was a dead limb, Jupiter?” cried Legrand in a quavering
      voice.
    

      “Yes, massa, him dead as de door-nail—done up for sartain—done
      departed dis here life.”
     

      “What in the name heaven shall I do?” asked Legrand, seemingly in the
      greatest distress.
     

      “Do!” said I, glad of an opportunity to interpose a word,
      “why come home and go to bed. Come now!—that’s a fine
      fellow. It’s getting late, and, besides, you remember your
      promise.”
     

      “Jupiter,” cried he, without heeding me in the least, “do you hear me?”
     

      “Yes, Massa Will, hear you ebber so plain.”
     

      “Try the wood well, then, with your knife, and see if you think it very
      rotten.”
     

      “Him rotten, massa, sure nuff,” replied the negro in a few moments, “but
      not so berry rotten as mought be. Mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb
      by myself, dat’s true.”
     

      “By yourself!—what do you mean?”
     

      “Why I mean de bug. ’Tis 
berry
 hebby bug. Spose I drop him down fuss, and
      den de limb won’t break wid just de weight ob one nigger.”
     

      “You infernal scoundrel!” cried Legrand, apparently much relieved, “what
      do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that? As sure as you drop that
      beetle I’ll break your neck. Look here, Jupiter, do you hear me?”
     

      “Yes, massa, needn’t hollo at poor nigger dat style.”
     

      “Well! now listen!—if you will venture out on the limb as far as you
      think safe, and not let go the beetle, I’ll make you a present of a silver
      dollar as soon as you get down.”
     

      “I’m gwine, Massa Will—deed I is,” replied the negro very promptly—“mos
      out to the eend now.”
     

      “
Out to the end!
” here fairly screamed Legrand, “do you say you are out to
      the end of that limb?”
     

      “Soon be to de eend, massa,—o-o-o-o-oh! Lor-gol-a-marcy! what is dis
      here pon de tree?”
     

      “Well!” cried Legrand, highly delighted, “what is it?”
     

      “Why taint noffin but a skull—somebody bin lef him head up de tree,
      and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off.”
     

      “A skull, you say!—very well—how is it fastened to the limb?—what
      holds it on?”
     

      “Sure nuff, massa; mus look. Why dis berry curous sarcumstance, pon my
      word—dare’s a great big nail in de skull, what fastens ob it on to
      de tree.”
     

      “Well now, Jupiter, do exactly as I tell you—do you hear?”
     

      “Yes, massa.”
     

      “Pay attention, then—find the left eye of the skull.”
     

      “Hum! hoo! dat’s good! why dare aint no eye lef at all.”
     

      “Curse your stupidity! do you know your right hand from your left?”
     

      “Yes, I knows dat—knows all about dat—’tis my lef hand what I
      chops de wood wid.”
     

      “To be sure! you are left-handed; and your left eye is on the same side as
      your left hand. Now, I suppose, you can find the left eye of the skull, or
      the place where the left eye has been. Have you found it?”
     

      Here was a long pause. At length the negro asked,
    

      “Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull,
      too?—cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all—nebber
      mind! I got de lef eye now—here de lef eye! what mus do wid it?”
     

      “Let the beetle drop through it, as far as the string will reach—but
      be careful and not let go your hold of the string.”
     

      “All dat done, Massa Will; mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole—look
      out for him dare below!”
     

      During this colloquy no portion of Jupiter’s person could be seen; but the
      beetle, which he had suffered to descend, was now visible at the end of
      the string, and glistened, like a globe of burnished gold, in the last
      rays of the setting sun, some of which still faintly illumined the
      eminence upon which we stood. The 
scarabæus
 hung quite clear of any
      branches, and, if allowed to fall, would have fallen at our feet. Legrand
      immediately took the scythe, and cleared with it a circular space, three
      or four yards in diameter, just beneath the insect, and, having
      accomplished this, ordered Jupiter to let go the string and come down from
      the tree.
    

      Driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot
      where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape
      measure. Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the tree
      which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg, and
      thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established by the
      two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty feet—Jupiter
      clearing away the brambles with the scythe. At the spot thus attained a
      second peg was driven, and about this, as a centre, a rude circle, about
      four feet in diameter, described. Taking now a spade himself, and giving
      one to Jupiter and one to me, Legrand begged us to set about digging as
      quickly as possible.
    

      To speak the truth, I had no especial relish for such amusement at any
      time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined
      it; for the night was coming on, and I felt much fatigued with the
      exercise already taken; but I saw no mode of escape, and was fearful of
      disturbing my poor friend’s equanimity by a refusal. Could I have
      depended, indeed, upon Jupiter’s aid, I would have had no hesitation in
      attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured of
      the old negro’s disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any
      circumstances, in a personal contest with his master. I made no doubt that
      the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern
      superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received
      confirmation by the finding of the 
scarabæus
, or, perhaps, by
      Jupiter’s obstinacy in maintaining it to be “a bug of real gold.” A mind
      disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such suggestions—especially
      if chiming in with favorite preconceived ideas—and then I called to
      mind the poor fellow’s speech about the beetle’s being “the index of his
      fortune.” Upon the whole, I was sadly vexed and puzzled, but, at length, I
      concluded to make a virtue of necessity—to dig with a good will, and
      thus the sooner to convince the visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the
      fallacy of the opinions he entertained.
    

      The lanterns having been lit, we all fell to work with a zeal worthy a
      more rational cause; and, as the glare fell upon our persons and
      implements, I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we composed,
      and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared to any
      interloper who, by chance, might have stumbled upon our whereabouts.
    

      We dug very steadily for two hours. Little was said; and our chief
      embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding interest
      in our proceedings. He, at length, became so obstreperous that we grew
      fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity—or,
      rather, this was the apprehension of Legrand;—for myself, I should
      have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the
      wanderer home. The noise was, at length, very effectually silenced by
      Jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation,
      tied the brute’s mouth up with one of his suspenders, and then returned,
      with a grave chuckle, to his task.
    

      When the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five feet,
      and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest. A general pause ensued,
      and I began to hope that the farce was at an end. Legrand, however,
      although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow thoughtfully and
      recommenced. We had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter, and
      now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the farther depth of two
      feet. Still nothing appeared. The gold-seeker, whom I sincerely pitied, at
      length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest disappointment imprinted
      upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly and reluctantly, to put on his
      coat, which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor. In the mean
      time I made no remark. Jupiter, at a signal from his master, began to
      gather up his tools. This done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we
      turned in profound silence towards home.
    

      We had taken, perhaps, a dozen steps in this direction, when, with a loud
      oath, Legrand strode up to Jupiter, and seized him by the collar. The
      astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent, let fall
      the spades, and fell upon his knees.
    

      “You scoundrel,” said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his
      clenched teeth—“you infernal black villain!—speak, I tell you!—answer
      me this instant, without prevarication!—which—which is your
      left eye?”
     

      “Oh, my golly, Massa Will! aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?” roared
      the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision,
      and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate
      dread of his master’s attempt at a gouge.
    

      “I thought so!—I knew it! hurrah!” vociferated Legrand, letting the
      negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the
      astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely,
      from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master.
    

      “Come! we must go back,” said the latter, “the game’s not up yet;” and he
      again led the way to the tulip-tree.
    

      “Jupiter,” said he, when we reached its foot, “come here! was the skull
      nailed to the limb with the face outwards, or with the face to the limb?”
     

      “De face was out, massa, so dat de crows could get at de eyes good, widout
      any trouble.”
     

      “Well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the
      beetle?”—here Legrand touched each of Jupiter’s eyes.
    

      “’Twas dis eye, massa—de lef eye—jis as you tell me,” and here
      it was his right eye that the negro indicated.
    

      “That will do—we must try it again.”
     

      Here my friend, about whose madness I now saw, or fancied that I saw,
      certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot where
      the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward of its
      former position. Taking, now, the tape measure from the nearest point of
      the trunk to the peg, as before, and continuing the extension in a
      straight line to the distance of fifty feet, a spot was indicated,
      removed, by several yards, from the point at which we had been digging.
    

      Around the new position a circle, somewhat larger than in the former
      instance, was now described, and we again set to work with the spades. I
      was dreadfully weary, but, scarcely understanding what had occasioned the
      change in my thoughts, I felt no longer any great aversion from the labor
      imposed. I had become most unaccountably interested—nay, even
      excited. Perhaps there was something, amid all the extravagant demeanor of
      Legrand—some air of forethought, or of deliberation, which impressed
      me. I dug eagerly, and now and then caught myself actually looking, with
      something that very much resembled expectation, for the fancied treasure,
      the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion. At a period
      when such vagaries of thought most fully possessed me, and when we had
      been at work perhaps an hour and a half, we were again interrupted by the
      violent howlings of the dog. His uneasiness, in the first instance, had
      been, evidently, but the result of playfulness or caprice, but he now
      assumed a bitter and serious tone. Upon Jupiter’s again attempting to
      muzzle him, he made furious resistance, and, leaping into the hole, tore
      up the mould frantically with his claws. In a few seconds he had uncovered
      a mass of human bones, forming two complete skeletons, intermingled with
      several buttons of metal, and what appeared to be the dust of decayed
      woollen. One or two strokes of a spade upturned the blade of a large
      Spanish knife, and, as we dug farther, three or four loose pieces of gold
      and silver coin came to light.
    

      At sight of these the joy of Jupiter could scarcely be restrained, but the
      countenance of his master wore an air of extreme disappointment. He urged
      us, however, to continue our exertions, and the words were hardly uttered
      when I stumbled and fell forward, having caught the toe of my boot in a
      large ring of iron that lay half buried in the loose earth.
    

      We now worked in earnest, and never did I pass ten minutes of more intense
      excitement. During this interval we had fairly unearthed an oblong chest
      of wood, which, from its perfect preservation and wonderful hardness, had
      plainly been subjected to some mineralizing process—perhaps that of
      the bi-chloride of mercury. This box was three feet and a half long, three
      feet broad, and two and a half feet deep. It was firmly secured by bands
      of wrought iron, riveted, and forming a kind of open trelliswork over the
      whole. On each side of the chest, near the top, were three rings of iron—six
      in all—by means of which a firm hold could be obtained by six
      persons. Our utmost united endeavors served only to disturb the coffer
      very slightly in its bed. We at once saw the impossibility of removing so
      great a weight. Luckily, the sole fastenings of the lid consisted of two
      sliding bolts. These we drew back—trembling and panting with
      anxiety. In an instant, a treasure of incalculable value lay gleaming
      before us. As the rays of the lanterns fell within the pit, there flashed
      upwards a glow and a glare, from a confused heap of gold and of jewels,
      that absolutely dazzled our eyes.
    

      I shall not pretend to describe the feelings with which I gazed. Amazement
      was, of course, predominant. Legrand appeared exhausted with excitement,
      and spoke very few words. Jupiter’s countenance wore, for some minutes, as
      deadly a pallor as it is possible, in nature of things, for any negro’s
      visage to assume. He seemed stupefied—thunderstricken. Presently he
      fell upon his knees in the pit, and, burying his naked arms up to the
      elbows in gold, let them there remain, as if enjoying the luxury of a
      bath. At length, with a deep sigh, he exclaimed, as if in a soliloquy:
    

      “And dis all cum ob de goole-bug! de putty goole-bug! de poor little
      goole-bug, what I boosed in dat sabage kind ob style! Aint you shamed ob
      yourself, nigger?—answer me dat!”
     

      It became necessary, at last, that I should arouse both master and valet
      to the expediency of removing the treasure. It was growing late, and it
      behooved us to make exertion, that we might get every thing housed before
      daylight. It was difficult to say what should be done, and much time was
      spent in deliberation—so confused were the ideas of all. We,
      finally, lightened the box by removing two thirds of its contents, when we
      were enabled, with some trouble, to raise it from the hole. The articles
      taken out were deposited among the brambles, and the dog left to guard
      them, with strict orders from Jupiter neither, upon any pretence, to stir
      from the spot, nor to open his mouth until our return. We then hurriedly
      made for home with the chest; reaching the hut in safety, but after
      excessive toil, at one o’clock in the morning. Worn out as we were, it was
      not in human nature to do more immediately. We rested until two, and had
      supper; starting for the hills immediately afterwards, armed with three
      stout sacks, which, by good luck, were upon the premises. A little before
      four we arrived at the pit, divided the remainder of the booty, as equally
      as might be, among us, and, leaving the holes unfilled, again set out for
      the hut, at which, for the second time, we deposited our golden burthens,
      just as the first faint streaks of the dawn gleamed from over the
      tree-tops in the East.
    

      We were now thoroughly broken down; but the intense excitement of the time
      denied us repose. After an unquiet slumber of some three or four hours’
      duration, we arose, as if by preconcert, to make examination of our
      treasure.
    

      The chest had been full to the brim, and we spent the whole day, and the
      greater part of the next night, in a scrutiny of its contents. There had
      been nothing like order or arrangement. Every thing had been heaped in
      promiscuously. Having assorted all with care, we found ourselves possessed
      of even vaster wealth than we had at first supposed. In coin there was
      rather more than four hundred and fifty thousand dollars—estimating
      the value of the pieces, as accurately as we could, by the tables of the
      period. There was not a particle of silver. All was gold of antique date
      and of great variety—French, Spanish, and German money, with a few
      English guineas, and some counters, of which we had never seen specimens
      before. There were several very large and heavy coins, so worn that we
      could make nothing of their inscriptions. There was no American money. The
      value of the jewels we found more difficulty in estimating. There were
      diamonds—some of them exceedingly large and fine—a hundred and
      ten in all, and not one of them small; eighteen rubies of remarkable
      brilliancy;—three hundred and ten emeralds, all very beautiful; and
      twenty-one sapphires, with an opal. These stones had all been broken from
      their settings and thrown loose in the chest. The settings themselves,
      which we picked out from among the other gold, appeared to have been
      beaten up with hammers, as if to prevent identification. Besides all this,
      there was a vast quantity of solid gold ornaments; nearly two
      hundred massive finger and earrings; rich chains—thirty of
      these, if I remember; eighty-three very large and heavy crucifixes; five
      gold censers of great value; a prodigious golden punch bowl,
      ornamented with richly chased vine-leaves and Bacchanalian figures; with
      two sword-handles exquisitely embossed, and many other smaller articles
      which I cannot recollect. The weight of these valuables exceeded three
      hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois; and in this estimate I have not
      included one hundred and ninety-seven superb gold watches; three of the
      number being worth each five hundred dollars, if one. Many of them were
      very old, and as timekeepers valueless; the works having suffered, more
      or less, from corrosion—but all were richly jewelled and in cases of
      great worth. We estimated the entire contents of the chest, that night, at
      a million and a half of dollars; and upon the subsequent disposal of the
      trinkets and jewels (a few being retained for our own use), it was found
      that we had greatly undervalued the treasure.
    

      When, at length, we had concluded our examination, and the intense
      excitement of the time had, in some measure, subsided, Legrand, who saw
      that I was dying with impatience for a solution of this most
      extraordinary riddle, entered into a full detail of all the circumstances
      connected with it.
    

      “You remember;” said he, “the night when I handed you the rough sketch I
      had made of the 
scarabæus
. You recollect also, that I became quite
      vexed at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death’s-head. When
      you first made this assertion I thought you were jesting; but afterwards I
      called to mind the peculiar spots on the back of the insect, and admitted
      to myself that your remark had some little foundation in fact. Still, the
      sneer at my graphic powers irritated me—for I am considered a good
      artist—and, therefore, when you handed me the scrap of parchment, I
      was about to crumple it up and throw it angrily into the fire.”
     

      “The scrap of paper, you mean,” said I.
    

      “No; it had much of the appearance of paper, and at first I supposed it to
      be such, but when I came to draw upon it, I discovered it, at once, to be
      a piece of very thin parchment. It was quite dirty, you remember. Well, as
      I was in the very act of crumpling it up, my glance fell upon the sketch
      at which you had been looking, and you may imagine my astonishment when I
      perceived, in fact, the figure of a death’s-head just where, it seemed to
      me, I had made the drawing of the beetle. For a moment I was too much
      amazed to think with accuracy. I knew that my design was very different in
      detail from this—although there was a certain similarity in general
      outline. Presently I took a candle, and seating myself at the other end of
      the room, proceeded to scrutinize the parchment more closely. Upon turning
      it over, I saw my own sketch upon the reverse, just as I had made it. My
      first idea, now, was mere surprise at the really remarkable similarity of
      outline—at the singular coincidence involved in the fact, that
      unknown to me, there should have been a skull upon the other side of the
      parchment, immediately beneath my figure of the 
scarabæus
, and that
      this skull, not only in outline, but in size, should so closely resemble
      my drawing. I say the singularity of this coincidence absolutely stupefied
      me for a time. This is the usual effect of such coincidences. The mind
      struggles to establish a connexion—a sequence of cause and effect—and,
      being unable to do so, suffers a species of temporary paralysis. But, when
      I recovered from this stupor, there dawned upon me gradually a conviction
      which startled me even far more than the coincidence. I began distinctly,
      positively, to remember that there had been no drawing upon the parchment
      when I made my sketch of the 
scarabæus
. I became perfectly certain
      of this; for I recollected turning up first one side and then the other,
      in search of the cleanest spot. Had the skull been then there, of course I
      could not have failed to notice it. Here was indeed a mystery which I felt
      it impossible to explain; but, even at that early moment, there seemed to
      glimmer, faintly, within the most remote and secret chambers of my
      intellect, a glow-worm-like conception of that truth which last night’s
      adventure brought to so magnificent a demonstration. I arose at once, and
      putting the parchment securely away, dismissed all farther reflection
      until I should be alone.
    

      “When you had gone, and when Jupiter was fast asleep, I betook myself to a
      more methodical investigation of the affair. In the first place I
      considered the manner in which the parchment had come into my possession.
      The spot where we discovered the 
scarabæus
 was on the coast of the main
      land, about a mile eastward of the island, and but a short distance above
      high water mark. Upon my taking hold of it, it gave me a sharp bite, which
      caused me to let it drop. Jupiter, with his accustomed caution, before
      seizing the insect, which had flown towards him, looked about him for a
      leaf, or something of that nature, by which to take hold of it. It was at
      this moment that his eyes, and mine also, fell upon the scrap of
      parchment, which I then supposed to be paper. It was lying half buried in
      the sand, a corner sticking up. Near the spot where we found it, I
      observed the remnants of the hull of what appeared to have been a ship’s
      long boat. The wreck seemed to have been there for a very great while; for
      the resemblance to boat timbers could scarcely be traced.