“Well, Jupiter picked up the parchment, wrapped the beetle in it, and gave
      it to me. Soon afterwards we turned to go home, and on the way met
      Lieutenant G——. I showed him the insect, and he begged me to let him take
      it to the fort. Upon my consenting, he thrust it forthwith into his
      waistcoat pocket, without the parchment in which it had been wrapped, and
      which I had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection. Perhaps he
      dreaded my changing my mind, and thought it best to make sure of the prize
      at once—you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects connected
      with Natural History. At the same time, without being conscious of it, I
      must have deposited the parchment in my own pocket.
    

      “You remember that when I went to the table, for the purpose of making a
      sketch of the beetle, I found no paper where it was usually kept. I looked
      in the drawer, and found none there. I searched my pockets, hoping to find
      an old letter, when my hand fell upon the parchment. I thus detail the
      precise mode in which it came into my possession; for the circumstances
      impressed me with peculiar force.
    

      “No doubt you will think me fanciful—but I had already established a
      kind of connexion. I had put together two links of a great chain. There
      was a boat lying upon a sea-coast, and not far from the boat was a
      parchment—not a paper—with a skull depicted upon it. You will,
      of course, ask ‘where is the connexion?’ I reply that the skull, or
      death’s-head, is the well-known emblem of the pirate. The flag of the
      death’s head is hoisted in all engagements.
    

      “I have said that the scrap was parchment, and not paper. Parchment is
      durable—almost imperishable. Matters of little moment are rarely
      consigned to parchment; since, for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing
      or writing, it is not nearly so well adapted as paper. This reflection
      suggested some meaning—some relevancy—in the death’s-head. I
      did not fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment. Although one of
      its corners had been, by some accident, destroyed, it could be seen that
      the original form was oblong. It was just such a slip, indeed, as might
      have been chosen for a memorandum—for a record of something to be
      long remembered and carefully preserved.”
     

      “But,” I interposed, “you say that the skull was not upon the parchment
      when you made the drawing of the beetle. How then do you trace any
      connexion between the boat and the skull—since this latter,
      according to your own admission, must have been designed (God only knows
      how or by whom) at some period subsequent to your sketching the 
scarabæus?
”
     

      “Ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this point,
      I had comparatively little difficulty in solving. My steps were sure, and
      could afford but a single result. I reasoned, for example, thus: When I
      drew the 
scarabæus
, there was no skull apparent upon the parchment.
      When I had completed the drawing I gave it to you, and observed you
      narrowly until you returned it. You, therefore, did not design the skull,
      and no one else was present to do it. Then it was not done by human
      agency. And nevertheless it was done.
    

      “At this stage of my reflections I endeavored to remember, and did
      remember, with entire distinctness, every incident which occurred about
      the period in question. The weather was chilly (oh rare and happy
      accident!), and a fire was blazing upon the hearth. I was heated with
      exercise and sat near the table. You, however, had drawn a chair close to
      the chimney. Just as I placed the parchment in your hand, and as you were
      in the act of inspecting it, Wolf, the Newfoundland, entered, and leaped
      upon your shoulders. With your left hand you caressed him and kept him
      off, while your right, holding the parchment, was permitted to fall
      listlessly between your knees, and in close proximity to the fire. At one
      moment I thought the blaze had caught it, and was about to caution you,
      but, before I could speak, you had withdrawn it, and were engaged in its
      examination. When I considered all these particulars, I doubted not for a
      moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to light, upon the
      parchment, the skull which I saw designed upon it. You are well aware that
      chemical preparations exist, and have existed time out of mind, by means
      of which it is possible to write upon either paper or vellum, so that the
      characters shall become visible only when subjected to the action of fire.
      Zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and diluted with four times its weight of
      water, is sometimes employed; a green tint results. The regulus of cobalt,
      dissolved in spirit of nitre, gives a red. These colors disappear at
      longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools, but
      again become apparent upon the re-application of heat.
    

      “I now scrutinized the death’s-head with care. Its outer edges—the
      edges of the drawing nearest the edge of the vellum—were far more
      distinct than the others. It was clear that the action of the caloric had
      been imperfect or unequal. I immediately kindled a fire, and subjected
      every portion of the parchment to a glowing heat. At first, the only
      effect was the strengthening of the faint lines in the skull; but, upon
      persevering in the experiment, there became visible, at the corner of the
      slip, diagonally opposite to the spot in which the death’s-head was
      delineated, the figure of what I at first supposed to be a goat. A closer
      scrutiny, however, satisfied me that it was intended for a kid.”
     

      “Ha! ha!” said I, “to be sure I have no right to laugh at you—a
      million and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth—but
      you are not about to establish a third link in your chain—you will
      not find any especial connexion between your pirates and a goat—pirates,
      you know, have nothing to do with goats; they appertain to the farming
      interest.”
     

      “But I have just said that the figure was not that of a goat.”
     

      “Well, a kid then—pretty much the same thing.”
     

      “Pretty much, but not altogether,” said Legrand. “You may have heard of
      one Captain Kidd. I at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a kind
      of punning or hieroglyphical signature. I say signature; because its
      position upon the vellum suggested this idea. The death’s-head at the
      corner diagonally opposite, had, in the same manner, the air of a stamp,
      or seal. But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else—of the
      body to my imagined instrument—of the text for my context.”
     

      “I presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the
      signature.”
     

      “Something of that kind. The fact is, I felt irresistibly impressed with a
      presentiment of some vast good fortune impending. I can scarcely say why.
      Perhaps, after all, it was rather a desire than an actual belief;—but
      do you know that Jupiter’s silly words, about the bug being of solid gold,
      had a remarkable effect upon my fancy? And then the series of accidents
      and coincidences—these were so very extraordinary. Do you observe
      how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon
      the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may be, sufficiently
      cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without the intervention of
      the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared, I should never have
      become aware of the death’s-head, and so never the possessor of the
      treasure?”
     

      “But proceed—I am all impatience.”
     

      “Well; you have heard, of course, the many stories current—the
      thousand vague rumors afloat about money buried, somewhere upon the
      Atlantic coast, by Kidd and his associates. These rumors must have had
      some foundation in fact. And that the rumors have existed so long and so
      continuous, could have resulted, it appeared to me, only from the
      circumstance of the buried treasure still remaining entombed. Had Kidd
      concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the rumors
      would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form. You will
      observe that the stories told are all about money-seekers, not about
      money-finders. Had the pirate recovered his money, there the affair would
      have dropped. It seemed to me that some accident—say the loss of a
      memorandum indicating its locality—had deprived him of the means of
      recovering it, and that this accident had become known to his followers,
      who otherwise might never have heard that treasure had been concealed at
      all, and who, busying themselves in vain, because unguided attempts, to
      regain it, had given first birth, and then universal currency, to the
      reports which are now so common. Have you ever heard of any important
      treasure being unearthed along the coast?”
     

      “Never.”
     

      “But that Kidd’s accumulations were immense, is well known. I took it for
      granted, therefore, that the earth still held them; and you will scarcely
      be surprised when I tell you that I felt a hope, nearly amounting to
      certainty, that the parchment so strangely found, involved a lost record
      of the place of deposit.”
     

      “But how did you proceed?”
     

      “I held the vellum again to the fire, after increasing the heat; but
      nothing appeared. I now thought it possible that the coating of dirt might
      have something to do with the failure; so I carefully rinsed the parchment
      by pouring warm water over it, and, having done this, I placed it in a tin
      pan, with the skull downwards, and put the pan upon a furnace of lighted
      charcoal. In a few minutes, the pan having become thoroughly heated, I
      removed the slip, and, to my inexpressible joy, found it spotted, in
      several places, with what appeared to be figures arranged in lines. Again
      I placed it in the pan, and suffered it to remain another minute. Upon
      taking it off, the whole was just as you see it now.”
     

      Here Legrand, having re-heated the parchment, submitted it to my
      inspection. The following characters were rudely traced, in a red tint,
      between the death’s-head and the goat:
    

     “53‡‡†305))6*;4826)4‡.)4‡);806*;48†8¶60))85;1‡(;:‡*8†83(88)5*†

     ;46(;88*96*?;8)*‡(;485);5*†2:*‡(;4956*2(5*—4)8¶8*;4069285);)

     6†8)4‡‡;1(‡9;48081;8:8‡1;48†85;4)485†528806*81(‡9;48;(88;4(‡?3

     4;48)4‡;161;:188;‡?;”
 

      “But,” said I, returning him the slip, “I am as much in the dark as ever.
      Were all the jewels of Golconda awaiting me upon my solution of this
      enigma, I am quite sure that I should be unable to earn them.”
     

      “And yet,” said Legrand, “the solution is by no means so difficult as you
      might be lead to imagine from the first hasty inspection of the
      characters. These characters, as any one might readily guess, form a
      cipher—that is to say, they convey a meaning; but then, from what is
      known of Kidd, I could not suppose him capable of constructing any of the
      more abstruse cryptographs. I made up my mind, at once, that this was of a
      simple species—such, however, as would appear, to the crude
      intellect of the sailor, absolutely insoluble without the key.”
     

      “And you really solved it?”
     

      “Readily; I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times
      greater. Circumstances, and a certain bias of mind, have led me to take
      interest in such riddles, and it may well be doubted whether human
      ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may
      not, by proper application, resolve. In fact, having once established
      connected and legible characters, I scarcely gave a thought to the mere
      difficulty of developing their import.
    

      “In the present case—indeed in all cases of secret writing—the
      first question regards the language of the cipher; for the principles of
      solution, so far, especially, as the more simple ciphers are concerned,
      depend upon, and are varied by, the genius of the particular idiom. In
      general, there is no alternative but experiment (directed by
      probabilities) of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution,
      until the true one be attained. But, with the cipher now before us, all
      difficulty was removed by the signature. The pun upon the word ‘Kidd’ is
      appreciable in no other language than the English. But for this
      consideration I should have begun my attempts with the Spanish and French,
      as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most naturally have
      been written by a pirate of the Spanish main. As it was, I assumed the
      cryptograph to be English.
    

      “You observe there are no divisions between the words. Had there been
      divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy. In such case I
      should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter words,
      and, had a word of a single letter occurred, as is most likely, (a or I,
      for example,) I should have considered the solution as assured. But, there
      being no division, my first step was to ascertain the predominant letters,
      as well as the least frequent. Counting all, I constructed a table, thus:
    

      Of the character 8 there are 33.
    

                          ;        “     26.

                          4        “     19.

                        ‡ )        “     16.

                          *        “     13.

                          5        “     12.

                          6        “     11.

                        † 1        “      8.

                          0        “      6.

                        9 2        “      5.

                        : 3        “      4.

                          ?        “      3.

                          ¶        “      2.

                         -.        “      1.

      “Now, in English, the letter which most frequently occurs is e.
      Afterwards, succession runs thus: 
a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k
      p q x z
. 
E
 predominates so remarkably that an individual
      sentence of any length is rarely seen, in which it is not the prevailing
      character.
    

      “Here, then, we leave, in the very beginning, the groundwork for something
      more than a mere guess. The general use which may be made of the table is
      obvious—but, in this particular cipher, we shall only very partially
      require its aid. As our predominant character is 8, we will commence by
      assuming it as the 
e
 of the natural alphabet. To verify the
      supposition, let us observe if the 8 be seen often in couples—for 
e

      is doubled with great frequency in English—in such words, for
      example, as ‘meet,’ ‘.fleet,’ ‘speed,’ ‘seen,’ been,’ ‘agree,’ &c. In
      the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times, although
      the cryptograph is brief.
    

      “Let us assume 8, then, as 
e
. Now, of all 
words
 in the
      language, ‘the’ is most usual; let us see, therefore, whether there are
      not repetitions of any three characters, in the same order of collocation,
      the last of them being 8. If we discover repetitions of such letters, so
      arranged, they will most probably represent the word ‘the.’ Upon
      inspection, we find no less than seven such arrangements, the characters
      being ;48. We may, therefore, assume that ; represents 
t
, 4
      represents 
h
, and 8 represents 
e
—the last being now
      well confirmed. Thus a great step has been taken.
    

      “But, having established a single word, we are enabled to establish a
      vastly important point; that is to say, several commencements and
      terminations of other words. Let us refer, for example, to the last
      instance but one, in which the combination ;48 occurs—not far from
      the end of the cipher. We know that the ; immediately ensuing is the
      commencement of a word, and, of the six characters succeeding this ‘the,’
      we are cognizant of no less than five. Let us set these characters down,
      thus, by the letters we know them to represent, leaving a space for the
      unknown—
    

      t eeth.
    

      “Here we are enabled, at once, to discard the ‘th,’ as forming no portion
      of the word commencing with the first t; since, by experiment of the
      entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy, we perceive that no
      word can be formed of which this 
th
 can be a part. We are thus
      narrowed into
    

      t ee,
    

      and, going through the alphabet, if necessary, as before, we arrive at the
      word ‘tree,’ as the sole possible reading. We thus gain another letter, 
r
,
      represented by (, with the words ‘the tree’ in juxtaposition.
    

      “Looking beyond these words, for a short distance, we again see the
      combination ;48, and employ it by way of termination to what
      immediately precedes. We have thus this arrangement:
    

      the tree ;4(‡?34 the,
    

      or, substituting the natural letters, where known, it reads thus:
    

      the tree thr‡?3h the.
    

      “Now, if, in place of the unknown characters, we leave blank spaces, or
      substitute dots, we read thus:
    

      the tree thr...h the,
    

      when the word ‘
through
’ makes itself evident at once. But this
      discovery gives us three new letters, 
o
, 
u
 and 
g
,
      represented by ‡, ? and 3.
    

      “Looking now, narrowly, through the cipher for combinations of known
      characters, we find, not very far from the beginning, this arrangement,
    

      83(88, or egree,
    

      which, plainly, is the conclusion of the word ‘degree,’ and gives us
      another letter, 
d
, represented by †.
    

      “Four letters beyond the word ‘degree,’ we perceive the combination
    

      ;46(;88.
    

      “Translating the known characters, and representing the unknown by dots,
      as before, we read thus:
    

      th.rtee,
    

      an arrangement immediately suggestive of the word ‘thirteen,’
      and again furnishing us with two new characters, 
i
 and 
n
,
      represented by 6 and *.
    

      “Referring, now, to the beginning of the cryptograph, we find the
      combination,
    

      53‡‡†.
    

      “Translating as before, we obtain
    

      good,
    

      which assures us that the first letter is 
A
, and that the first two
      words are ‘A good.’
    

      “It is now time that we arrange our key, as far as discovered, in a
      tabular form, to avoid confusion. It will stand thus:
    

                5 represents      a

                †       “         d

                8       “         e

                3       “         g

                4       “         h

                6       “         i

                *       “         n

                ‡       “         o

                (       “         r

                ;       “         t

                ?       “         u

      “We have, therefore, no less than eleven of the most important letters
      represented, and it will be unnecessary to proceed with the details of the
      solution. I have said enough to convince you that ciphers of this nature
      are readily soluble, and to give you some insight into the rationale of
      their development. But be assured that the specimen before us appertains
      to the very simplest species of cryptograph. It now only remains to give
      you the full translation of the characters upon the parchment, as
      unriddled. Here it is:
    

      “‘
A good glass in the bishop’s hostel in the devil’s seat forty-one
      degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh
      limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death’s-head a bee line from
      the tree through the shot fifty feet out
.’”
     

      “But,” said I, “the enigma seems still in as bad a condition as ever. How
      is it possible to extort a meaning from all this jargon about ‘devil’s
      seats,’ ‘death’s heads,’ and ‘bishop’s hotels?’”
     

      “I confess,” replied Legrand, “that the matter still wears a serious
      aspect, when regarded with a casual glance. My first endeavor was to
      divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the
      cryptographist.”
     

      “You mean, to punctuate it?”
     

      “Something of that kind.”
     

      “But how was it possible to effect this?”
     

      “I reflected that it had been a point with the writer to run his words
      together without division, so as to increase the difficulty of solution.
      Now, a not over-acute man, in pursuing such an object, would be nearly
      certain to overdo the matter. When, in the course of his composition, he
      arrived at a break in his subject which would naturally require a pause,
      or a point, he would be exceedingly apt to run his characters, at this
      place, more than usually close together. If you will observe the MS., in
      the present instance, you will easily detect five such cases of unusual
      crowding. Acting upon this hint, I made the division thus: ‘A good glass
      in the Bishop’s hostel in the Devil’s seat—forty-one degrees and
      thirteen minutes—northeast and by north—main branch seventh
      limb east side—shoot from the left eye of the death’s-head—a
      bee-line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out.’”
     

      “Even this division,” said I, “leaves me still in the dark.”
     

      “It left me also in the dark,” replied Legrand, “for a few days; during
      which I made diligent inquiry, in the neighborhood of Sullivan’s Island,
      for any building which went by the name of the ‘Bishop’s Hotel;’ for, of
      course, I dropped the obsolete word ‘hostel.’ Gaining no information on
      the subject, I was on the point of extending my sphere of search, and
      proceeding in a more systematic manner, when, one morning, it entered into
      my head, quite suddenly, that this ‘Bishop’s Hostel’ might have some
      reference to an old family, of the name of Bessop, which, time out of
      mind, had held possession of an ancient manor-house, about four miles to
      the northward of the island. I accordingly went over to the plantation,
      and re-instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of the place. At
      length one of the most aged of the women said that she had heard of such a
      place as Bessop’s Castle, and thought that she could guide me to it, but
      that it was not a castle nor a tavern, but a high rock.
    

      “I offered to pay her well for her trouble, and, after some demur, she
      consented to accompany me to the spot. We found it without much
      difficulty, when, dismissing her, I proceeded to examine the place. The
      ‘castle’ consisted of an irregular assemblage of cliffs and rocks—one
      of the latter being quite remarkable for its height as well as for its
      insulated and artificial appearance. I clambered to its apex, and then felt
      much at a loss as to what should be next done.
    

      “While I was busied in reflection, my eyes fell upon a narrow ledge in the
      eastern face of the rock, perhaps a yard below the summit upon which I
      stood. This ledge projected about eighteen inches, and was not more than a
      foot wide, while a niche in the cliff just above it gave it a rude
      resemblance to one of the hollow-backed chairs used by our ancestors. I
      made no doubt that here was the ‘devil’s seat’ alluded to in the MS., and
      now I seemed to grasp the full secret of the riddle.
    

      “The ‘good glass,’ I knew, could have reference to nothing but a
      telescope; for the word ‘glass’ is rarely employed in any other sense by
      seamen. Now here, I at once saw, was a telescope to be used, and a
      definite point of view, admitting no variation, from which to use it. Nor
      did I hesitate to believe that the phrases, ‘forty-one degrees and
      thirteen minutes,’ and ‘northeast and by north,’ were intended as
      directions for the levelling of the glass. Greatly excited by these
      discoveries, I hurried home, procured a telescope, and returned to the
      rock.
    

      “I let myself down to the ledge, and found that it was impossible to
      retain a seat upon it except in one particular position. This fact
      confirmed my preconceived idea. I proceeded to use the glass. Of course,
      the ‘forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes’ could allude to nothing but
      elevation above the visible horizon, since the horizontal direction was
      clearly indicated by the words, ‘northeast and by north.’ This latter
      direction I at once established by means of a pocket-compass; then,
      pointing the glass as nearly at an angle of forty-one degrees of elevation
      as I could do it by guess, I moved it cautiously up or down, until my
      attention was arrested by a circular rift or opening in the foliage of a
      large tree that overtopped its fellows in the distance. In the centre of
      this rift I perceived a white spot, but could not, at first, distinguish
      what it was. Adjusting the focus of the telescope, I again looked, and now
      made it out to be a human skull.
    

      “Upon this discovery I was so sanguine as to consider the enigma solved;
      for the phrase ‘main branch, seventh limb, east side,’ could refer only to
      the position of the skull upon the tree, while ‘shoot from the left eye of
      the death’s head’ admitted, also, of but one interpretation, in regard to
      a search for buried treasure. I perceived that the design was to drop a
      bullet from the left eye of the skull, and that a bee-line, or, in other
      words, a straight line, drawn from the nearest point of the trunk through
      ‘the shot,’ (or the spot where the bullet fell,) and thence extended to a
      distance of fifty feet, would indicate a definite point—and beneath
      this point I thought it at least possible that a deposit of value lay
      concealed.”
     

      “All this,” I said, “is exceedingly clear, and, although ingenious, still
      simple and explicit. When you left the Bishop’s Hotel, what then?”
     

      “Why, having carefully taken the bearings of the tree, I turned homewards.
      The instant that I left ‘the devil’s seat,’ however, the circular rift
      vanished; nor could I get a glimpse of it afterwards, turn as I would.
      What seems to me the chief ingenuity in this whole business, is the fact
      (for repeated experiment has convinced me it is a fact) that the circular
      opening in question is visible from no other attainable point of view than
      that afforded by the narrow ledge upon the face of the rock.
    

      “In this expedition to the ‘Bishop’s Hotel’ I had been attended by
      Jupiter, who had, no doubt, observed, for some weeks past, the abstraction
      of my demeanor, and took especial care not to leave me alone. But, on the
      next day, getting up very early, I contrived to give him the slip, and
      went into the hills in search of the tree. After much toil I found it.
      When I came home at night my valet proposed to give me a flogging. With
      the rest of the adventure I believe you are as well acquainted as myself.”
     

      “I suppose,” said I, “you missed the spot, in the first attempt at
      digging, through Jupiter’s stupidity in letting the bug fall through the
      right instead of through the left eye of the skull.”
     

      “Precisely. This mistake made a difference of about two inches and a half
      in the ‘shot’—that is to say, in the position of the peg nearest the
      tree; and had the treasure been beneath the ‘shot,’ the error would have
      been of little moment; but ‘the shot,’ together with the nearest point of
      the tree, were merely two points for the establishment of a line of
      direction; of course the error, however trivial in the beginning,
      increased as we proceeded with the line, and by the time we had gone fifty
      feet, threw us quite off the scent. But for my deep-seated impressions
      that treasure was here somewhere actually buried, we might have had all
      our labor in vain.”
     

      “But your grandiloquence, and your conduct in swinging the beetle—how
      excessively odd! I was sure you were mad. And why did you insist upon
      letting fall the bug, instead of a bullet, from the skull?”
     

      “Why, to be frank, I felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions
      touching my sanity, and so resolved to punish you quietly, in my own way,
      by a little bit of sober mystification. For this reason I swung the
      beetle, and for this reason I let it fall it from the tree. An observation
      of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea.”
     

      “Yes, I perceive; and now there is only one point which puzzles me. What
      are we to make of the skeletons found in the hole?”
     

      “That is a question I am no more able to answer than yourself. There
      seems, however, only one plausible way of accounting for them—and
      yet it is dreadful to believe in such atrocity as my suggestion would
      imply. It is clear that Kidd—if Kidd indeed secreted this treasure,
      which I doubt not—it is clear that he must have had assistance in
      the labor. But this labor concluded, he may have thought it expedient to
      remove all participants in his secret. Perhaps a couple of blows with a
      mattock were sufficient, while his coadjutors were busy in the pit;
      perhaps it required a dozen—who shall tell?”