“Well, Jupiter picked up the parchment, wrapped the beetle in it, and gave
      it to me. Soon afterwards we turned to go home, and on the way met
      Lieutenant G——. I showed him the insect, and he begged me to let him take
      it to the fort. Upon my consenting, he thrust it forthwith into his
      waistcoat pocket, without the parchment in which it had been wrapped, and
      which I had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection. Perhaps he
      dreaded my changing my mind, and thought it best to make sure of the prize
      at once—you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects connected
      with Natural History. At the same time, without being conscious of it, I
      must have deposited the parchment in my own pocket.
    

      “You remember that when I went to the table, for the purpose of making a
      sketch of the beetle, I found no paper where it was usually kept. I looked
      in the drawer, and found none there. I searched my pockets, hoping to find
      an old letter, when my hand fell upon the parchment. I thus detail the
      precise mode in which it came into my possession; for the circumstances
      impressed me with peculiar force.
    

      “No doubt you will think me fanciful—but I had already established a
      kind of connexion. I had put together two links of a great chain. There
      was a boat lying upon a sea-coast, and not far from the boat was a
      parchment—not a paper—with a skull depicted upon it. You will,
      of course, ask ‘where is the connexion?’ I reply that the skull, or
      death’s-head, is the well-known emblem of the pirate. The flag of the
      death’s head is hoisted in all engagements.
    

      “I have said that the scrap was parchment, and not paper. Parchment is
      durable—almost imperishable. Matters of little moment are rarely
      consigned to parchment; since, for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing
      or writing, it is not nearly so well adapted as paper. This reflection
      suggested some meaning—some relevancy—in the death’s-head. I
      did not fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment. Although one of
      its corners had been, by some accident, destroyed, it could be seen that
      the original form was oblong. It was just such a slip, indeed, as might
      have been chosen for a memorandum—for a record of something to be
      long remembered and carefully preserved.”
     

      “But,” I interposed, “you say that the skull was not upon the parchment
      when you made the drawing of the beetle. How then do you trace any
      connexion between the boat and the skull—since this latter,
      according to your own admission, must have been designed (God only knows
      how or by whom) at some period subsequent to your sketching the 
scarabæus?
”
     

      “Ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this point,
      I had comparatively little difficulty in solving. My steps were sure, and
      could afford but a single result. I reasoned, for example, thus: When I
      drew the 
scarabæus
, there was no skull apparent upon the parchment.
      When I had completed the drawing I gave it to you, and observed you
      narrowly until you returned it. You, therefore, did not design the skull,
      and no one else was present to do it. Then it was not done by human
      agency. And nevertheless it was done.
    

      “At this stage of my reflections I endeavored to remember, and did
      remember, with entire distinctness, every incident which occurred about
      the period in question. The weather was chilly (oh rare and happy
      accident!), and a fire was blazing upon the hearth. I was heated with
      exercise and sat near the table. You, however, had drawn a chair close to
      the chimney. Just as I placed the parchment in your hand, and as you were
      in the act of inspecting it, Wolf, the Newfoundland, entered, and leaped
      upon your shoulders. With your left hand you caressed him and kept him
      off, while your right, holding the parchment, was permitted to fall
      listlessly between your knees, and in close proximity to the fire. At one
      moment I thought the blaze had caught it, and was about to caution you,
      but, before I could speak, you had withdrawn it, and were engaged in its
      examination. When I considered all these particulars, I doubted not for a
      moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to light, upon the
      parchment, the skull which I saw designed upon it. You are well aware that
      chemical preparations exist, and have existed time out of mind, by means
      of which it is possible to write upon either paper or vellum, so that the
      characters shall become visible only when subjected to the action of fire.
      Zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and diluted with four times its weight of
      water, is sometimes employed; a green tint results. The regulus of cobalt,
      dissolved in spirit of nitre, gives a red. These colors disappear at
      longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools, but
      again become apparent upon the re-application of heat.
    

      “I now scrutinized the death’s-head with care. Its outer edges—the
      edges of the drawing nearest the edge of the vellum—were far more
      distinct than the others. It was clear that the action of the caloric had
      been imperfect or unequal. I immediately kindled a fire, and subjected
      every portion of the parchment to a glowing heat. At first, the only
      effect was the strengthening of the faint lines in the skull; but, upon
      persevering in the experiment, there became visible, at the corner of the
      slip, diagonally opposite to the spot in which the death’s-head was
      delineated, the figure of what I at first supposed to be a goat. A closer
      scrutiny, however, satisfied me that it was intended for a kid.”
     

      “Ha! ha!” said I, “to be sure I have no right to laugh at you—a
      million and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth—but
      you are not about to establish a third link in your chain—you will
      not find any especial connexion between your pirates and a goat—pirates,
      you know, have nothing to do with goats; they appertain to the farming
      interest.”
     

      “But I have just said that the figure was not that of a goat.”
     

      “Well, a kid then—pretty much the same thing.”
     

      “Pretty much, but not altogether,” said Legrand. “You may have heard of
      one Captain Kidd. I at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a kind
      of punning or hieroglyphical signature. I say signature; because its
      position upon the vellum suggested this idea. The death’s-head at the
      corner diagonally opposite, had, in the same manner, the air of a stamp,
      or seal. But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else—of the
      body to my imagined instrument—of the text for my context.”
     

      “I presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the
      signature.”
     

      “Something of that kind. The fact is, I felt irresistibly impressed with a
      presentiment of some vast good fortune impending. I can scarcely say why.
      Perhaps, after all, it was rather a desire than an actual belief;—but
      do you know that Jupiter’s silly words, about the bug being of solid gold,
      had a remarkable effect upon my fancy? And then the series of accidents
      and coincidences—these were so very extraordinary. Do you observe
      how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon
      the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may be, sufficiently
      cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without the intervention of
      the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared, I should never have
      become aware of the death’s-head, and so never the possessor of the
      treasure?”
     

      “But proceed—I am all impatience.”
     

      “Well; you have heard, of course, the many stories current—the
      thousand vague rumors afloat about money buried, somewhere upon the
      Atlantic coast, by Kidd and his associates. These rumors must have had
      some foundation in fact. And that the rumors have existed so long and so
      continuous, could have resulted, it appeared to me, only from the
      circumstance of the buried treasure still remaining entombed. Had Kidd
      concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the rumors
      would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form. You will
      observe that the stories told are all about money-seekers, not about
      money-finders. Had the pirate recovered his money, there the affair would
      have dropped. It seemed to me that some accident—say the loss of a
      memorandum indicating its locality—had deprived him of the means of
      recovering it, and that this accident had become known to his followers,
      who otherwise might never have heard that treasure had been concealed at
      all, and who, busying themselves in vain, because unguided attempts, to
      regain it, had given first birth, and then universal currency, to the
      reports which are now so common. Have you ever heard of any important
      treasure being unearthed along the coast?”
     

      “Never.”
     

      “But that Kidd’s accumulations were immense, is well known. I took it for
      granted, therefore, that the earth still held them; and you will scarcely
      be surprised when I tell you that I felt a hope, nearly amounting to
      certainty, that the parchment so strangely found, involved a lost record
      of the place of deposit.”
     

      “But how did you proceed?”
     

      “I held the vellum again to the fire, after increasing the heat; but
      nothing appeared. I now thought it possible that the coating of dirt might
      have something to do with the failure; so I carefully rinsed the parchment
      by pouring warm water over it, and, having done this, I placed it in a tin
      pan, with the skull downwards, and put the pan upon a furnace of lighted
      charcoal. In a few minutes, the pan having become thoroughly heated, I
      removed the slip, and, to my inexpressible joy, found it spotted, in
      several places, with what appeared to be figures arranged in lines. Again
      I placed it in the pan, and suffered it to remain another minute. Upon
      taking it off, the whole was just as you see it now.”
     

      Here Legrand, having re-heated the parchment, submitted it to my
      inspection. The following characters were rudely traced, in a red tint,
      between the death’s-head and the goat:
    

     “53‡‡†305))6*;4826)4‡.)4‡);806*;48†8¶60))85;1‡(;:‡*8†83(88)5*†

     ;46(;88*96*?;8)*‡(;485);5*†2:*‡(;4956*2(5*—4)8¶8*;4069285);)

     6†8)4‡‡;1(‡9;48081;8:8‡1;48†85;4)485†528806*81(‡9;48;(88;4(‡?3

     4;48)4‡;161;:188;‡?;”
 

      “But,” said I, returning him the slip, “I am as much in the dark as ever.
      Were all the jewels of Golconda awaiting me upon my solution of this
      enigma, I am quite sure that I should be unable to earn them.”
     

      “And yet,” said Legrand, “the solution is by no means so difficult as you
      might be lead to imagine from the first hasty inspection of the
      characters. These characters, as any one might readily guess, form a
      cipher—that is to say, they convey a meaning; but then, from what is
      known of Kidd, I could not suppose him capable of constructing any of the
      more abstruse cryptographs. I made up my mind, at once, that this was of a
      simple species—such, however, as would appear, to the crude
      intellect of the sailor, absolutely insoluble without the key.”
     

      “And you really solved it?”
     

      “Readily; I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times
      greater. Circumstances, and a certain bias of mind, have led me to take
      interest in such riddles, and it may well be doubted whether human
      ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may
      not, by proper application, resolve. In fact, having once established
      connected and legible characters, I scarcely gave a thought to the mere
      difficulty of developing their import.
    

      “In the present case—indeed in all cases of secret writing—the
      first question regards the language of the cipher; for the principles of
      solution, so far, especially, as the more simple ciphers are concerned,
      depend upon, and are varied by, the genius of the particular idiom. In
      general, there is no alternative but experiment (directed by
      probabilities) of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution,
      until the true one be attained. But, with the cipher now before us, all
      difficulty was removed by the signature. The pun upon the word ‘Kidd’ is
      appreciable in no other language than the English. But for this
      consideration I should have begun my attempts with the Spanish and French,
      as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most naturally have
      been written by a pirate of the Spanish main. As it was, I assumed the
      cryptograph to be English.
    

      “You observe there are no divisions between the words. Had there been
      divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy. In such case I
      should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter words,
      and, had a word of a single letter occurred, as is most likely, (a or I,
      for example,) I should have considered the solution as assured. But, there
      being no division, my first step was to ascertain the predominant letters,
      as well as the least frequent. Counting all, I constructed a table, thus:
    

      Of the character 8 there are 33.
    

                          ;        “     26.

                          4        “     19.

                        ‡ )        “     16.

                          *        “     13.

                          5        “     12.

                          6        “     11.

                        † 1        “      8.

                          0        “      6.

                        9 2        “      5.

                        : 3        “      4.

                          ?        “      3.

                          ¶        “      2.

                         -.        “      1.

      “Now, in English, the letter which most frequently occurs is e.
      Afterwards, succession runs thus: 
a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k
      p q x z
. 
E
 predominates so remarkably that an individual
      sentence of any length is rarely seen, in which it is not the prevailing
      character.
    

      “Here, then, we leave, in the very beginning, the groundwork for something
      more than a mere guess. The general use which may be made of the table is
      obvious—but, in this particular cipher, we shall only very partially
      require its aid. As our predominant character is 8, we will commence by
      assuming it as the 
e
 of the natural alphabet. To verify the
      supposition, let us observe if the 8 be seen often in couples—for 
e

      is doubled with great frequency in English—in such words, for
      example, as ‘meet,’ ‘.fleet,’ ‘speed,’ ‘seen,’ been,’ ‘agree,’ &c. In
      the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times, although
      the cryptograph is brief.
    