      “Bless me! it is an ape!”
     

      True—a baboon; but by no means the less a deity. His name is a
      derivation of the Greek Simia—what great fools are antiquarians! But
      see!—see!—yonder scampers a ragged little urchin. Where is he
      going? What is he bawling about? What does he say? Oh! he says the king is
      coming in triumph; that he is dressed in state; that he has just finished
      putting to death, with his own hand, a thousand chained Israelitish
      prisoners! For this exploit the ragamuffin is lauding him to the skies!
      Hark! here comes a troop of a similar description. They have made a Latin
      hymn upon the valor of the king, and are singing it as they go:
    

      Mille, mille, mille,

      Mille, mille, mille,

      Decollavimus, unus homo!

      Mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus!

      Mille, mille, mille,

      Vivat qui mille mille occidit!

      Tantum vini habet nemo

      Quantum sanguinis effudit!(*1)
    

      Which may be thus paraphrased:
    

      A thousand, a thousand, a thousand,

      A thousand, a thousand, a thousand,

      We, with one warrior, have slain!

      A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand.

      Sing a thousand over again!

      Soho!—let us sing

      Long life to our king,

      Who knocked over a thousand so fine!

      Soho!—let us roar,

      He has given us more

      Red gallons of gore

      Than all Syria can furnish of wine!
    

      “Do you hear that flourish of trumpets?”
     

      Yes—the king is coming! See! the people are aghast with admiration, and
      lift up their eyes to the heavens in reverence. He comes!—he is
      coming!—there he is!
    

      “Who?—where?—the king?—do not behold him—cannot
      say that I perceive him.”
     

      Then you must be blind.
    

      “Very possible. Still I see nothing but a tumultuous mob of idiots and
      madmen, who are busy in prostrating themselves before a gigantic
      cameleopard, and endeavoring to obtain a kiss of the animal’s hoofs. See!
      the beast has very justly kicked one of the rabble over—and another—and
      another—and another. Indeed, I cannot help admiring the animal for
      the excellent use he is making of his feet.”
     

      Rabble, indeed!—why these are the noble and free citizens of
      Epidaphne! Beasts, did you say?—take care that you are not
      overheard. Do you not perceive that the animal has the visage of a man?
      Why, my dear sir, that cameleopard is no other than Antiochus Epiphanes,
      Antiochus the Illustrious, King of Syria, and the most potent of all the
      autocrats of the East! It is true, that he is entitled, at times,
      Antiochus Epimanes—Antiochus the madman—but that is because
      all people have not the capacity to appreciate his merits. It is also
      certain that he is at present ensconced in the hide of a beast, and is
      doing his best to play the part of a cameleopard; but this is done for the
      better sustaining his dignity as king. Besides, the monarch is of gigantic
      stature, and the dress is therefore neither unbecoming nor over large. We
      may, however, presume he would not have adopted it but for some occasion
      of especial state. Such, you will allow, is the massacre of a thousand
      Jews. With how superior a dignity the monarch perambulates on all fours!
      His tail, you perceive, is held aloft by his two principal concubines,
      Elline and Argelais; and his whole appearance would be infinitely
      prepossessing, were it not for the protuberance of his eyes, which will
      certainly start out of his head, and the queer color of his face, which
      has become nondescript from the quantity of wine he has swallowed. Let us
      follow him to the hippodrome, whither he is proceeding, and listen to the
      song of triumph which he is commencing:
    

      Who is king but Epiphanes?

      Say—do you know?

      Who is king but Epiphanes?

      Bravo!—bravo!

      There is none but Epiphanes,

      No—there is none:

      So tear down the temples,

      And put out the sun!
    

      Well and strenuously sung! The populace are hailing him ‘Prince of Poets,’
      as well as ‘Glory of the East,’ ‘Delight of the Universe,’ and ‘Most
      Remarkable of Cameleopards.’ They have encored his effusion, and do you
      hear?—he is singing it over again. When he arrives at the
      hippodrome, he will be crowned with the poetic wreath, in anticipation of
      his victory at the approaching Olympics.
    

      “But, good Jupiter! what is the matter in the crowd behind us?”
     

      Behind us, did you say?—oh! ah!—I perceive. My friend, it is
      well that you spoke in time. Let us get into a place of safety as soon as
      possible. Here!—let us conceal ourselves in the arch of this
      aqueduct, and I will inform you presently of the origin of the commotion.
      It has turned out as I have been anticipating. The singular appearance of
      the cameleopard and the head of a man, has, it seems, given offence to the
      notions of propriety entertained, in general, by the wild animals
      domesticated in the city. A mutiny has been the result; and, as is usual
      upon such occasions, all human efforts will be of no avail in quelling the
      mob. Several of the Syrians have already been devoured; but the general
      voice of the four-footed patriots seems to be for eating up the
      cameleopard. ‘The Prince of Poets,’ therefore, is upon his hinder legs,
      running for his life. His courtiers have left him in the lurch, and his
      concubines have followed so excellent an example. ‘Delight of the
      Universe,’ thou art in a sad predicament! ‘Glory of the East,’ thou art in
      danger of mastication! Therefore never regard so piteously thy tail; it
      will undoubtedly be draggled in the mud, and for this there is no help.
      Look not behind thee, then, at its unavoidable degradation; but take
      courage, ply thy legs with vigor, and scud for the hippodrome! Remember
      that thou art Antiochus Epiphanes. Antiochus the Illustrious!—also
      ‘Prince of Poets,’ ‘Glory of the East,’ ‘Delight of the Universe,’ and
      ‘Most Remarkable of Cameleopards!’ Heavens! what a power of speed thou art
      displaying! What a capacity for leg-bail thou art developing! Run, Prince!—Bravo,
      Epiphanes! Well done, Cameleopard!—Glorious Antiochus!—He
      runs!—he leaps!—he flies! Like an arrow from a catapult he
      approaches the hippodrome! He leaps!—he shrieks!—he is there!
      This is well; for hadst thou, ‘Glory of the East,’ been half a second
      longer in reaching the gates of the Amphitheatre, there is not a bear’s
      cub in Epidaphne that would not have had a nibble at thy carcase. Let us
      be off—let us take our departure!—for we shall find our
      delicate modern ears unable to endure the vast uproar which is about to
      commence in celebration of the king’s escape! Listen! it has already
      commenced. See!—the whole town is topsy-turvy.
    

      “Surely this is the most populous city of the East! What a wilderness of
      people! what a jumble of all ranks and ages! what a multiplicity of sects
      and nations! what a variety of costumes! what a Babel of languages! what a
      screaming of beasts! what a tinkling of instruments! what a parcel of
      philosophers!”
     

      Come let us be off.
    

      “Stay a moment! I see a vast hubbub in the hippodrome; what is the meaning
      of it, I beseech you?”
     

      That?—oh, nothing! The noble and free citizens of Epidaphne being,
      as they declare, well satisfied of the faith, valor, wisdom, and divinity
      of their king, and having, moreover, been eye-witnesses of his late
      superhuman agility, do think it no more than their duty to invest his
      brows (in addition to the poetic crown) with the wreath of victory in the
      footrace—a wreath which it is evident he must obtain at the
      celebration of the next Olympiad, and which, therefore, they now give him
      in advance.
    

Footnotes—Four Beasts

      (*1) Flavius Vospicus says, that the hymn here introduced was sung by the
      rabble upon the occasion of Aurelian, in the Sarmatic war, having slain,
      with his own hand, nine hundred and fifty of the enemy.