FOUR BEASTS IN ONE—THE HOMO-CAMELEOPARD

Chacun a ses vertus.

—
Crébillon’s Xerxes.

      Antiochus Epiphanes is very generally looked upon as the Gog of the
      prophet Ezekiel. This honor is, however, more properly attributable to
      Cambyses, the son of Cyrus. And, indeed, the character of the Syrian
      monarch does by no means stand in need of any adventitious embellishment.
      His accession to the throne, or rather his usurpation of the sovereignty,
      a hundred and seventy-one years before the coming of Christ; his attempt
      to plunder the temple of Diana at Ephesus; his implacable hostility to the
      Jews; his pollution of the Holy of Holies; and his miserable death at
      Taba, after a tumultuous reign of eleven years, are circumstances of a
      prominent kind, and therefore more generally noticed by the historians of
      his time than the impious, dastardly, cruel, silly, and whimsical
      achievements which make up the sum total of his private life and
      reputation.
    

      Let us suppose, gentle reader, that it is now the year of the world three
      thousand eight hundred and thirty, and let us, for a few minutes, imagine
      ourselves at that most grotesque habitation of man, the remarkable city of
      Antioch. To be sure there were, in Syria and other countries, sixteen
      cities of that appellation, besides the one to which I more particularly
      allude. But ours is that which went by the name of Antiochia Epidaphne,
      from its vicinity to the little village of Daphne, where stood a temple to
      that divinity. It was built (although about this matter there is some
      dispute) by Seleucus Nicanor, the first king of the country after
      Alexander the Great, in memory of his father Antiochus, and became
      immediately the residence of the Syrian monarchy. In the flourishing times
      of the Roman Empire, it was the ordinary station of the prefect of the
      eastern provinces; and many of the emperors of the queen city (among whom
      may be mentioned, especially, Verus and Valens) spent here the greater
      part of their time. But I perceive we have arrived at the city itself. Let
      us ascend this battlement, and throw our eyes upon the town and
      neighboring country.
    

      “What broad and rapid river is that which forces its way, with innumerable
      falls, through the mountainous wilderness, and finally through the
      wilderness of buildings?”
     

      That is the Orontes, and it is the only water in sight, with the exception
      of the Mediterranean, which stretches, like a broad mirror, about twelve
      miles off to the southward. Every one has seen the Mediterranean; but let
      me tell you, there are few who have had a peep at Antioch. By few, I mean,
      few who, like you and me, have had, at the same time, the advantages of a
      modern education. Therefore cease to regard that sea, and give your whole
      attention to the mass of houses that lie beneath us. You will remember
      that it is now the year of the world three thousand eight hundred and
      thirty. Were it later—for example, were it the year of our Lord
      eighteen hundred and forty-five, we should be deprived of this
      extraordinary spectacle. In the nineteenth century Antioch is—that
      is to say, Antioch will be—in a lamentable state of decay. It will
      have been, by that time, totally destroyed, at three different periods, by
      three successive earthquakes. Indeed, to say the truth, what little of its
      former self may then remain, will be found in so desolate and ruinous a
      state that the patriarch shall have removed his residence to Damascus.
      This is well. I see you profit by my advice, and are making the most of
      your time in inspecting the premises—in
    

      —satisfying your eyes

      With the memorials and the things of fame

      That most renown this city.—
    

      I beg pardon; I had forgotten that Shakespeare will not flourish for
      seventeen hundred and fifty years to come. But does not the appearance of
      Epidaphne justify me in calling it grotesque?
    

      “It is well fortified; and in this respect is as much indebted to nature
      as to art.”
     

      Very true.
    

      “There are a prodigious number of stately palaces.”
     

      There are.
    

      “And the numerous temples, sumptuous and magnificent, may bear comparison
      with the most lauded of antiquity.”
     

      All this I must acknowledge. Still there is an infinity of mud huts, and
      abominable hovels. We cannot help perceiving abundance of filth in every
      kennel, and, were it not for the over-powering fumes of idolatrous
      incense, I have no doubt we should find a most intolerable stench. Did you
      ever behold streets so insufferably narrow, or houses so miraculously
      tall? What gloom their shadows cast upon the ground! It is well the
      swinging lamps in those endless colonnades are kept burning throughout the
      day; we should otherwise have the darkness of Egypt in the time of her
      desolation.
    

      “It is certainly a strange place! What is the meaning of yonder singular
      building? See! it towers above all others, and lies to the eastward of
      what I take to be the royal palace!”
     

      That is the new Temple of the Sun, who is adored in Syria under the title
      of Elah Gabalah. Hereafter a very notorious Roman Emperor will institute
      this worship in Rome, and thence derive a cognomen, Heliogabalus. I dare
      say you would like to take a peep at the divinity of the temple. You need
      not look up at the heavens; his Sunship is not there—at least not
      the Sunship adored by the Syrians. That deity will be found in the
      interior of yonder building. He is worshipped under the figure of a large
      stone pillar terminating at the summit in a cone or pyramid, whereby is
      denoted Fire.
    

      “Hark—behold!—who can those ridiculous beings be, half naked,
      with their faces painted, shouting and gesticulating to the rabble?”
     

      Some few are mountebanks. Others more particularly belong to the race of
      philosophers. The greatest portion, however—those especially who
      belabor the populace with clubs—are the principal courtiers of the
      palace, executing as in duty bound, some laudable comicality of the
      king’s.
    

      “But what have we here? Heavens! the town is swarming with wild beasts!
      How terrible a spectacle!—how dangerous a peculiarity!”
     

      Terrible, if you please; but not in the least degree dangerous. Each
      animal if you will take the pains to observe, is following, very quietly,
      in the wake of its master. Some few, to be sure, are led with a rope about
      the neck, but these are chiefly the lesser or timid species. The lion, the
      tiger, and the leopard are entirely without restraint. They have been
      trained without difficulty to their present profession, and attend upon
      their respective owners in the capacity of valets-de-chambre. It is true,
      there are occasions when Nature asserts her violated dominions;—but
      then the devouring of a man-at-arms, or the throttling of a consecrated
      bull, is a circumstance of too little moment to be more than hinted at in
      Epidaphne.
    

      “But what extraordinary tumult do I hear? Surely this is a loud noise even
      for Antioch! It argues some commotion of unusual interest.”
     

      Yes—undoubtedly. The king has ordered some novel spectacle—some
      gladiatorial exhibition at the hippodrome—or perhaps the massacre of
      the Scythian prisoners—or the conflagration of his new palace—or
      the tearing down of a handsome temple—or, indeed, a bonfire of a few
      Jews. The uproar increases. Shouts of laughter ascend the skies. The air
      becomes dissonant with wind instruments, and horrible with clamor of a
      million throats. Let us descend, for the love of fun, and see what is
      going on! This way—be careful! Here we are in the principal street,
      which is called the street of Timarchus. The sea of people is coming this
      way, and we shall find a difficulty in stemming the tide. They are pouring
      through the alley of Heraclides, which leads directly from the palace;—therefore
      the king is most probably among the rioters. Yes—I hear the shouts
      of the herald proclaiming his approach in the pompous phraseology of the
      East. We shall have a glimpse of his person as he passes by the temple of
      Ashimah. Let us ensconce ourselves in the vestibule of the sanctuary; he
      will be here anon. In the meantime let us survey this image. What is it?
      Oh! it is the god Ashimah in proper person. You perceive, however, that he
      is neither a lamb, nor a goat, nor a satyr, neither has he much
      resemblance to the Pan of the Arcadians. Yet all these appearances have
      been given—I beg pardon—will be given—by the learned of
      future ages, to the Ashimah of the Syrians. Put on your spectacles, and
      tell me what it is. What is it?
    