“The next question is that of the mode of descent. Upon this point I had
      been satisfied in my walk with you around the building. About five feet
      and a half from the casement in question there runs a lightning-rod. From
      this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the window
      itself, to say nothing of entering it. I observed, however, that the
      shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by Parisian
      carpenters 
ferrades
—a kind rarely employed at the present
      day, but frequently seen upon very old mansions at Lyons and Bordeaux.
      They are in the form of an ordinary door (a single, not a folding door),
      except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis—thus
      affording an excellent hold for the hands. In the present instance these
      shutters are fully three feet and a half broad. When we saw them from the
      rear of the house, they were both about half open—that is to say,
      they stood off at right angles from the wall. It is probable that the
      police, as well as myself, examined the back of the tenement; but, if so,
      in looking at these 
ferrades
 in the line of their breadth (as they
      must have done), they did not perceive this great breadth itself, or, at
      all events, failed to take it into due consideration. In fact, having once
      satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter,
      they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination. It was clear
      to me, however, that the shutter belonging to the window at the head of
      the bed, would, if swung fully back to the wall, reach to within two feet
      of the lightning-rod. It was also evident that, by exertion of a very
      unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance into the window, from
      the rod, might have been thus effected. By reaching to the distance
      of two feet and a half (we now suppose the shutter open to its whole
      extent) a robber might have taken a firm grasp upon the trellis-work.
      Letting go, then, his hold upon the rod, placing his feet securely against
      the wall, and springing boldly from it, he might have swung the shutter so
      as to close it, and, if we imagine the window open at the time, might even
      have swung himself into the room.
    

      “I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a 
very

      unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so
      difficult a feat. It is my design to show you, first, that the thing might
      possibly have been accomplished:—but, secondly and 
chiefly
, I
      wish to impress upon your understanding the 
very extraordinary
—the
      almost præternatural character of that agility which could have
      accomplished it.
    

      “You will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that ‘to make out
      my case,’ I should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full estimation
      of the activity required in this matter. This may be the practice in law,
      but it is not the usage of reason. My ultimate object is only the truth.
      My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition, that 
very
      unusual
 activity of which I have just spoken with that 
very
      peculiar
 shrill (or harsh) and 
unequal
 voice, about whose
      nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose utterance
      no syllabification could be detected.”
     

      At these words a vague and half-formed conception of the meaning of Dupin
      flitted over my mind. I seemed to be upon the verge of comprehension
      without power to comprehend—as men, at times, find themselves upon the
      brink of remembrance without being able, in the end, to remember. My
      friend went on with his discourse.
    

      “You will see,” he said, “that I have shifted the question from the mode
      of egress to that of ingress. It was my design to convey the idea that
      both were effected in the same manner, at the same point. Let us now
      revert to the interior of the room. Let us survey the appearances here.
      The drawers of the bureau, it is said, had been rifled, although many
      articles of apparel still remained within them. The conclusion here is
      absurd. It is a mere guess—a very silly one—and no more. How
      are we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these
      drawers had originally contained? Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter lived
      an exceedingly retired life—saw no company—seldom went out—had
      little use for numerous changes of habiliment. Those found were at least
      of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies. If a
      thief had taken any, why did he not take the best—why did he not
      take all? In a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to
      encumber himself with a bundle of linen? The gold 
was
 abandoned.
      Nearly the whole sum mentioned by Monsieur Mignaud, the banker, was
      discovered, in bags, upon the floor. I wish you, therefore, to discard
      from your thoughts the blundering idea of 
motive
, engendered in the
      brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of money
      delivered at the door of the house. Coincidences ten times as remarkable
      as this (the delivery of the money, and murder committed within three days
      upon the party receiving it), happen to all of us every hour of our lives,
      without attracting even momentary notice. Coincidences, in general, are
      great stumbling-blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been
      educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities—that theory
      to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the
      most glorious of illustration. In the present instance, had the gold been
      gone, the fact of its delivery three days before would have formed
      something more than a coincidence. It would have been corroborative of
      this idea of motive. But, under the real circumstances of the case, if we
      are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage, we must also imagine the
      perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his
      motive together.
    

      “Keeping now steadily in mind the points to which I have drawn your
      attention—that peculiar voice, that unusual agility, and that
      startling absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this—let
      us glance at the butchery itself. Here is a woman strangled to death by
      manual strength, and thrust up a chimney, head downward. Ordinary
      assassins employ no such modes of murder as this. Least of all, do they
      thus dispose of the murdered. In the manner of thrusting the corpse up the
      chimney, you will admit that there was something 
excessively outré
—something
      altogether irreconcilable with our common notions of human action, even
      when we suppose the actors the most depraved of men. Think, too, how great
      must have been that strength which could have thrust the body 
up

      such an aperture so forcibly that the united vigor of several persons was
      found barely sufficient to drag it 
down!

      “Turn, now, to other indications of the employment of a vigor most
      marvellous. On the hearth were thick tresses—very thick tresses—of
      grey human hair. These had been torn out by the roots. You are aware of
      the great force necessary in tearing thus from the head even twenty or
      thirty hairs together. You saw the locks in question as well as myself.
      Their roots (a hideous sight!) were clotted with fragments of the flesh of
      the scalp—sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted
      in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time. The throat of the
      old lady was not merely cut, but the head absolutely severed from the
      body: the instrument was a mere razor. I wish you also to look at the 
brutal

      ferocity of these deeds. Of the bruises upon the body of Madame L’Espanaye
      I do not speak. Monsieur Dumas, and his worthy coadjutor Monsieur Etienne,
      have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument; and so
      far these gentlemen are very correct. The obtuse instrument was clearly
      the stone pavement in the yard, upon which the victim had fallen from the
      window which looked in upon the bed. This idea, however simple it may now
      seem, escaped the police for the same reason that the breadth of the
      shutters escaped them—because, by the affair of the nails, their
      perceptions had been hermetically sealed against the possibility of the
      windows having ever been opened at all.
    

      “If now, in addition to all these things, you have properly reflected upon
      the odd disorder of the chamber, we have gone so far as to combine the
      ideas of an agility astounding, a strength superhuman, a ferocity brutal,
      a butchery without motive, a 
grotesquerie
 in horror absolutely
      alien from humanity, and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men of
      many nations, and devoid of all distinct or intelligible syllabification.
      What result, then, has ensued? What impression have I made upon your
      fancy?”
     

      I felt a creeping of the flesh as Dupin asked me the question. “A madman,”
       I said, “has done this deed—some raving maniac, escaped from a
      neighboring 
Maison de Santé.
”
     

      “In some respects,” he replied, “your idea is not irrelevant. But the
      voices of madmen, even in their wildest paroxysms, are never found to
      tally with that peculiar voice heard upon the stairs. Madmen are of some
      nation, and their language, however incoherent in its words, has always
      the coherence of syllabification. Besides, the hair of a madman is not
      such as I now hold in my hand. I disentangled this little tuft from the
      rigidly clutched fingers of Madame L’Espanaye. Tell me what you can make
      of it.”
     

      “Dupin!” I said, completely unnerved; “this hair is most unusual—this
      is no 
human
 hair.”
     

      “I have not asserted that it is,” said he; “but, before we decide this
      point, I wish you to glance at the little sketch I have here traced upon
      this paper. It is a 
fac-simile
 drawing of what has been described
      in one portion of the testimony as ‘dark bruises, and deep indentations of
      finger nails,’ upon the throat of Mademoiselle L’Espanaye, and in another
      (by Messrs. Dumas and Etienne,) as a ‘series of livid spots, evidently the
      impression of fingers.’
    

      “You will perceive,” continued my friend, spreading out the paper upon the
      table before us, “that this drawing gives the idea of a firm and fixed
      hold. There is no 
slipping
 apparent. Each finger has retained—possibly
      until the death of the victim—the fearful grasp by which it
      originally imbedded itself. Attempt, now, to place all your fingers, at
      the same time, in the respective impressions as you see them.”
     

      I made the attempt in vain.
    

      “We are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial,” he said. “The paper
      is spread out upon a plane surface; but the human throat is cylindrical.
      Here is a billet of wood, the circumference of which is about that of the
      throat. Wrap the drawing around it, and try the experiment again.”
     

      I did so; but the difficulty was even more obvious than before. “This,” I
      said, “is the mark of no human hand.”
     

      “Read now,” replied Dupin, “this passage from Cuvier.”
     

      It was a minute anatomical and generally descriptive account of the large
      fulvous Ourang-Outang of the East Indian Islands. The gigantic stature,
      the prodigious strength and activity, the wild ferocity, and the imitative
      propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known to all. I
      understood the full horrors of the murder at once.
    

      “The description of the digits,” said I, as I made an end of reading, “is
      in exact accordance with this drawing. I see that no animal but an
      Ourang-Outang, of the species here mentioned, could have impressed the
      indentations as you have traced them. This tuft of tawny hair, too, is
      identical in character with that of the beast of Cuvier. But I cannot
      possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery. Besides,
      there were 
two
 voices heard in contention, and one of them was
      unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman.”
     

      “True; and you will remember an expression attributed almost unanimously,
      by the evidence, to this voice,—the expression, ‘
mon Dieu!
’
      This, under the circumstances, has been justly characterized by one of the
      witnesses (Montani, the confectioner,) as an expression of remonstrance or
      expostulation. Upon these two words, therefore, I have mainly built my
      hopes of a full solution of the riddle. A Frenchman was cognizant of the
      murder. It is possible—indeed it is far more than probable—that
      he was innocent of all participation in the bloody transactions which took
      place. The Ourang-Outang may have escaped from him. He may have traced it
      to the chamber; but, under the agitating circumstances which ensued, he
      could never have re-captured it. It is still at large. I will not pursue
      these guesses—for I have no right to call them more—since the
      shades of reflection upon which they are based are scarcely of sufficient
      depth to be appreciable by my own intellect, and since I could not pretend
      to make them intelligible to the understanding of another. We will call
      them guesses then, and speak of them as such. If the Frenchman in question
      is indeed, as I suppose, innocent of this atrocity, this advertisement
      which I left last night, upon our return home, at the office of ‘Le
      Monde’ (a paper devoted to the shipping interest, and much sought by
      sailors), will bring him to our residence.”
     

      He handed me a paper, and I read thus:
    

      C
AUGHT
—
In the Bois de Boulogne, early in the morning of the ——inst.,

      (the morning of the murder), 
a very large, tawny Ourang-Outang of the
      Bornese species. The owner (who is ascertained to be a sailor, belonging
      to a Maltese vessel) may have the animal again, upon identifying it
      satisfactorily, and paying a few charges arising from its capture and
      keeping. Call at No. ——, Rue ——, Faubourg St.
      Germain—au troisième.

      “How was it possible,” I asked, “that you should know the man to be a
      sailor, and belonging to a Maltese vessel?”
     

      “I do 
not
 know it,” said Dupin. “I am not 
sure
 of it. Here,
      however, is a small piece of ribbon, which from its form, and from its
      greasy appearance, has evidently been used in tying the hair in one of
      those long 
queues
 of which sailors are so fond. Moreover, this knot
      is one which few besides sailors can tie, and is peculiar to the Maltese.
      I picked the ribbon up at the foot of the lightning-rod. It could not have
      belonged to either of the deceased. Now if, after all, I am wrong in my
      induction from this ribbon, that the Frenchman was a sailor belonging to a
      Maltese vessel, still I can have done no harm in saying what I did in the
      advertisement. If I am in error, he will merely suppose that I have been
      misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble to
      inquire. But if I am right, a great point is gained. Cognizant although
      innocent of the murder, the Frenchman will naturally hesitate about
      replying to the advertisement—about demanding the Ourang-Outang. He
      will reason thus:—‘I am innocent; I am poor; my Ourang-Outang is of
      great value—to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself—why
      should I lose it through idle apprehensions of danger? Here it is, within
      my grasp. It was found in the Bois de Boulogne—at a vast distance
      from the scene of that butchery. How can it ever be suspected that a brute
      beast should have done the deed? The police are at fault—they have
      failed to procure the slightest clew. Should they even trace the animal,
      it would be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder, or to
      implicate me in guilt on account of that cognizance. Above all, 
I am
      known.
 The advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast. I
      am not sure to what limit his knowledge may extend. Should I avoid
      claiming a property of so great value, which it is known that I possess, I
      will render the animal at least, liable to suspicion. It is not my policy
      to attract attention either to myself or to the beast. I will answer the
      advertisement, get the Ourang-Outang, and keep it close until this matter
      has blown over.’”
     