“
Jules Mignaud
, banker, of the firm of Mignaud et Fils, Rue
      Deloraine. Is the elder Mignaud. Madame L’Espanaye had some property. Had
      opened an account with his banking house in the spring of the year—(eight
      years previously). Made frequent deposits in small sums. Had checked for
      nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in person
      the sum of 4000 francs. This sum was paid in gold, and a clerk went home
      with the money.
    

      “
Adolphe Le Bon
, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day
      in question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L’Espanaye to her residence
      with the 4000 francs, put up in two bags. Upon the door being opened,
      Mademoiselle L. appeared and took from his hands one of the bags, while
      the old lady relieved him of the other. He then bowed and departed. Did
      not see any person in the street at the time. It is a by-street—very
      lonely.
    

      “
William Bird
, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who
      entered the house. Is an Englishman. Has lived in Paris two years. Was one
      of the first to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in contention. The
      gruff voice was that of a Frenchman. Could make out several words, but
      cannot now remember all. Heard distinctly ‘
sacré
’ and ‘
mon
      Dieu.
’ There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons
      struggling—a scraping and scuffling sound. The shrill voice was very
      loud—louder than the gruff one. Is sure that it was not the voice of
      an Englishman. Appeared to be that of a German. Might have been a woman’s
      voice. Does not understand German.
    

      “Four of the above-named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the door
      of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L. was locked
      on the inside when the party reached it. Every thing was perfectly silent—no
      groans or noises of any kind. Upon forcing the door no person was seen.
      The windows, both of the back and front room, were down and firmly
      fastened from within. A door between the two rooms was closed, but not
      locked. The door leading from the front room into the passage was locked,
      with the key on the inside. A small room in the front of the house, on the
      fourth story, at the head of the passage was open, the door being ajar.
      This room was crowded with old beds, boxes, and so forth. These were
      carefully removed and searched. There was not an inch of any portion of
      the house which was not carefully searched. Sweeps were sent up and down
      the chimneys. The house was a four story one, with garrets (
mansardes.
)
      A trap-door on the roof was nailed down very securely—did not appear
      to have been opened for years. The time elapsing between the hearing of
      the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door, was
      variously stated by the witnesses. Some made it as short as three minutes—some
      as long as five. The door was opened with difficulty.
    

      “
Alfonzo Garcio
, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the Rue
      Morgue. Is a native of Spain. Was one of the party who entered the house.
      Did not proceed up stairs. Is nervous, and was apprehensive of the
      consequences of agitation. Heard the voices in contention. The gruff voice
      was that of a Frenchman. Could not distinguish what was said. The shrill
      voice was that of an Englishman—is sure of this. Does not understand
      the English language, but judges by the intonation.
    

      “
Alberto Montani
, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first
      to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in question. The gruff voice was
      that of a Frenchman. Distinguished several words. The speaker appeared to
      be expostulating. Could not make out the words of the shrill voice. Spoke
      quick and unevenly. Thinks it the voice of a Russian. Corroborates the
      general testimony. Is an Italian. Never conversed with a native of Russia.
    

      “Several witnesses, recalled, here testified that the chimneys of all the
      rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a human
      being. By ‘sweeps’ were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes, such as are
      employed by those who clean chimneys. These brushes were passed up and
      down every flue in the house. There is no back passage by which any one
      could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs. The body of
      Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that it could
      not be got down until four or five of the party united their strength.
    

      “
Paul Dumas
, physician, deposes that he was called to view the
      bodies about day-break. They were both then lying on the sacking of the
      bedstead in the chamber where Mademoiselle L. was found. The corpse of the
      young lady was much bruised and excoriated. The fact that it had been
      thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these appearances.
      The throat was greatly chafed. There were several deep scratches just
      below the chin, together with a series of livid spots which were evidently
      the impression of fingers. The face was fearfully discolored, and the
      eye-balls protruded. The tongue had been partially bitten through. A large
      bruise was discovered upon the pit of the stomach, produced, apparently,
      by the pressure of a knee. In the opinion of M. Dumas, Mademoiselle
      L’Espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown.
      The corpse of the mother was horribly mutilated. All the bones of the
      right leg and arm were more or less shattered. The left 
tibia
 much
      splintered, as well as all the ribs of the left side. Whole body
      dreadfully bruised and discolored. It was not possible to say how the
      injuries had been inflicted. A heavy club of wood, or a broad bar of iron—a
      chair—any large, heavy, and obtuse weapon would have produced such
      results, if wielded by the hands of a very powerful man. No woman could
      have inflicted the blows with any weapon. The head of the deceased, when
      seen by witness, was entirely separated from the body, and was also
      greatly shattered. The throat had evidently been cut with some very sharp
      instrument—probably with a razor.
    

      “
Alexandre Etienne
, surgeon, was called with M. Dumas to view the
      bodies. Corroborated the testimony, and the opinions of M. Dumas.
    

      “Nothing farther of importance was elicited, although several other
      persons were examined. A murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all
      its particulars, was never before committed in Paris—if indeed a
      murder has been committed at all. The police are entirely at fault—an
      unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature. There is not, however, the
      shadow of a clew apparent.”
     

      The evening edition of the paper stated that the greatest excitement still
      continued in the Quartier St. Roch—that the premises in question had
      been carefully re-searched, and fresh examinations of witnesses
      instituted, but all to no purpose. A postscript, however, mentioned that
      Adolphe Le Bon had been arrested and imprisoned—although nothing
      appeared to criminate him, beyond the facts already detailed.
    

      Dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair—at
      least so I judged from his manner, for he made no comments. It was only
      after the announcement that Le Bon had been imprisoned, that he asked me
      my opinion respecting the murders.
    

      I could merely agree with all Paris in considering them an insoluble
      mystery. I saw no means by which it would be possible to trace the
      murderer.
    

      “We must not judge of the means,” said Dupin, “by this shell of an
      examination. The Parisian police, so much extolled for 
acumen
, are
      cunning, but no more. There is no method in their proceedings, beyond the
      method of the moment. They make a vast parade of measures; but, not
      unfrequently, these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed, as to put
      us in mind of Monsieur Jourdain’s calling for his 
robe-de-chambre—pour
      mieux entendre la musique.
 The results attained by them are not
      unfrequently surprising, but, for the most part, are brought about by
      simple diligence and activity. When these qualities are unavailing, their
      schemes fail. Vidocq, for example, was a good guesser and a persevering
      man. But, without educated thought, he erred continually by the very
      intensity of his investigations. He impaired his vision by holding the
      object too close. He might see, perhaps, one or two points with unusual
      clearness, but in so doing he, necessarily, lost sight of the matter as a
      whole. Thus there is such a thing as being too profound. Truth is not
      always in a well. In fact, as regards the more important knowledge, I do
      believe that she is invariably superficial. The depth lies in the valleys
      where we seek her, and not upon the mountain-tops where she is found. The
      modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the
      contemplation of the heavenly bodies. To look at a star by glances—to
      view it in a side-long way, by turning toward it the exterior portions of
      the 
retina
 (more susceptible of feeble impressions of light than
      the interior), is to behold the star distinctly—is to have the best
      appreciation of its lustre—a lustre which grows dim just in
      proportion as we turn our vision 
fully
 upon it. A greater number of
      rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter case, but, in the former,
      there is the more refined capacity for comprehension. By undue profundity
      we perplex and enfeeble thought; and it is possible to make even Venus
      herself vanish from the firmament by a scrutiny too sustained, too
      concentrated, or too direct.
    

      “As for these murders, let us enter into some examinations for ourselves,
      before we make up an opinion respecting them. An inquiry will afford us
      amusement,” [I thought this an odd term, so applied, but said nothing]
      “and, besides, Le Bon once rendered me a service for which I am not
      ungrateful. We will go and see the premises with our own eyes. I know G——,
      the Prefect of Police, and shall have no difficulty in obtaining the
      necessary permission.”
     

      The permission was obtained, and we proceeded at once to the Rue Morgue.
      This is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the
      Rue Richelieu and the Rue St. Roch. It was late in the afternoon when we
      reached it, as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we
      resided. The house was readily found; for there were still many persons
      gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from the
      opposite side of the way. It was an ordinary Parisian house, with a
      gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch-box, with a sliding panel
      in the window, indicating a 
loge de concierge.
 Before going in we
      walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning,
      passed in the rear of the building—Dupin, meanwhile examining the
      whole neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention
      for which I could see no possible object.
    

      Retracing our steps, we came again to the front of the dwelling, rang,
      and, having shown our credentials, were admitted by the agents in charge.
      We went up stairs—into the chamber where the body of Mademoiselle
      L’Espanaye had been found, and where both the deceased still lay. The
      disorders of the room had, as usual, been suffered to exist. I saw nothing
      beyond what had been stated in the “Gazette des Tribunaux.” Dupin
      scrutinized every thing—not excepting the bodies of the victims. We
      then went into the other rooms, and into the yard; a 
gendarme

      accompanying us throughout. The examination occupied us until dark, when
      we took our departure. On our way home my companion stepped in for a
      moment at the office of one of the daily papers.
    

      I have said that the whims of my friend were manifold, and that 
Je les
      ménageais
:—for this phrase there is no English equivalent.
      It was his humor, now, to decline all conversation on the subject of the
      murder, until about noon the next day. He then asked me, suddenly, if I
      had observed any thing 
peculiar
 at the scene of the atrocity.
    

      There was something in his manner of emphasizing the word “peculiar,”
       which caused me to shudder, without knowing why.
    

      “No, nothing 
peculiar
,” I said; “nothing more, at least, than we
      both saw stated in the paper.”
     

      “The ‘Gazette,’” he replied, “has not entered, I fear, into the unusual
      horror of the thing. But dismiss the idle opinions of this print. It
      appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble, for the very
      reason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution—I
      mean for the 
outré
 character of its features. The police are
      confounded by the seeming absence of motive—not for the murder
      itself—but for the atrocity of the murder. They are puzzled, too, by
      the seeming impossibility of reconciling the voices heard in contention,
      with the facts that no one was discovered up stairs but the assassinated
      Mademoiselle L’Espanaye, and that there were no means of egress without
      the notice of the party ascending. The wild disorder of the room; the
      corpse thrust, with the head downward, up the chimney; the frightful
      mutilation of the body of the old lady; these considerations, with those
      just mentioned, and others which I need not mention, have sufficed to
      paralyze the powers, by putting completely at fault the boasted 
acumen
,
      of the government agents. They have fallen into the gross but common error
      of confounding the unusual with the abstruse. But it is by these
      deviations from the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels its way, if
      at all, in its search for the true. In investigations such as we are now
      pursuing, it should not be so much asked ‘what has occurred,’ as ‘what has
      occurred that has never occurred before.’ In fact, the facility with which
      I shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution of this mystery, is in
      the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of the police.”
     