      “Of Madame L’Espanaye no traces were here seen; but an unusual quantity of
      soot being observed in the fire-place, a search was made in the chimney,
      and (horrible to relate!) the corpse of the daughter, head downward, was
      dragged therefrom; it having been thus forced up the narrow aperture for a
      considerable distance. The body was quite warm. Upon examining it, many
      excoriations were perceived, no doubt occasioned by the violence with
      which it had been thrust up and disengaged. Upon the face were many severe
      scratches, and, upon the throat, dark bruises, and deep indentations of
      finger nails, as if the deceased had been throttled to death.
    

      “After a thorough investigation of every portion of the house, without
      farther discovery, the party made its way into a small paved yard in the
      rear of the building, where lay the corpse of the old lady, with her
      throat so entirely cut that, upon an attempt to raise her, the head fell
      off. The body, as well as the head, was fearfully mutilated—the
      former so much so as scarcely to retain any semblance of humanity.
    

      “To this horrible mystery there is not as yet, we believe, the slightest
      clew.”
     

      The next day’s paper had these additional particulars.
    

      “
The Tragedy in the Rue Morgue.
—Many individuals have been examined
      in relation to this most extraordinary and frightful affair” [The word
      ‘affaire’ has not yet, in France, that levity of import which it conveys
      with us], “but nothing whatever has transpired to throw light upon it. We
      give below all the material testimony elicited.
    

      “
Pauline Dubourg
, laundress, deposes that she has known both the
      deceased for three years, having washed for them during that period. The
      old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms—very affectionate
      towards each other. They were excellent pay. Could not speak in regard to
      their mode or means of living. Believed that Madame L. told fortunes for a
      living. Was reputed to have money put by. Never met any persons in the
      house when she called for the clothes or took them home. Was sure that
      they had no servant in employ. There appeared to be no furniture in any
      part of the building except in the fourth story.
    

      “
Pierre Moreau
, tobacconist, deposes that he has been in the habit
      of selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to Madame L’Espanaye for
      nearly four years. Was born in the neighborhood, and has always resided
      there. The deceased and her daughter had occupied the house in which the
      corpses were found, for more than six years. It was formerly occupied by a
      jeweller, who under-let the upper rooms to various persons. The house was
      the property of Madame L. She became dissatisfied with the abuse of the
      premises by her tenant, and moved into them herself, refusing to let any
      portion. The old lady was childish. Witness had seen the daughter some
      five or six times during the six years. The two lived an exceedingly
      retired life—were reputed to have money. Had heard it said among the
      neighbors that Madame L. told fortunes—did not believe it. Had never
      seen any person enter the door except the old lady and her daughter, a
      porter once or twice, and a physician some eight or ten times.
    

      “Many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect. No one
      was spoken of as frequenting the house. It was not known whether there
      were any living connexions of Madame L. and her daughter. The shutters of
      the front windows were seldom opened. Those in the rear were always
      closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story. The house
      was a good house—not very old.
    

      “
Isidore Musèt
, 
gendarme
, deposes that he was called to the
      house about three o’clock in the morning, and found some twenty or thirty
      persons at the gateway, endeavoring to gain admittance. Forced it open, at
      length, with a bayonet—not with a crowbar. Had but little difficulty
      in getting it open, on account of its being a double or folding gate, and
      bolted neither at bottom not top. The shrieks were continued until the
      gate was forced—and then suddenly ceased. They seemed to be screams
      of some person (or persons) in great agony—were loud and drawn out,
      not short and quick. Witness led the way up stairs. Upon reaching the
      first landing, heard two voices in loud and angry contention—the one
      a gruff voice, the other much shriller—a very strange voice. Could
      distinguish some words of the former, which was that of a Frenchman. Was
      positive that it was not a woman’s voice. Could distinguish the words ‘
sacré
’
      and ‘
diable.
’ The shrill voice was that of a foreigner. Could not
      be sure whether it was the voice of a man or of a woman. Could not make
      out what was said, but believed the language to be Spanish. The state of
      the room and of the bodies was described by this witness as we described
      them yesterday.
    

      “
Henri Duval
, a neighbor, and by trade a silver-smith, deposes that
      he was one of the party who first entered the house. Corroborates the
      testimony of Musèt in general. As soon as they forced an entrance,
      they reclosed the door, to keep out the crowd, which collected very fast,
      notwithstanding the lateness of the hour. The shrill voice, this witness
      thinks, was that of an Italian. Was certain it was not French. Could not
      be sure that it was a man’s voice. It might have been a woman’s. Was not
      acquainted with the Italian language. Could not distinguish the words, but
      was convinced by the intonation that the speaker was an Italian. Knew
      Madame L. and her daughter. Had conversed with both frequently. Was sure
      that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased.
    

      “——
Odenheimer, restaurateur.
 This witness volunteered his
      testimony. Not speaking French, was examined through an interpreter. Is a
      native of Amsterdam. Was passing the house at the time of the shrieks.
      They lasted for several minutes—probably ten. They were long and
      loud—very awful and distressing. Was one of those who entered the
      building. Corroborated the previous evidence in every respect but one. Was
      sure that the shrill voice was that of a man—of a Frenchman. Could
      not distinguish the words uttered. They were loud and quick—unequal—spoken
      apparently in fear as well as in anger. The voice was harsh—not so
      much shrill as harsh. Could not call it a shrill voice. The gruff voice
      said repeatedly ‘
sacré
,’ ‘
diable
,’ and once ‘
mon
      Dieu.
’