“The next question is that of the mode of descent. Upon this point I had
      been satisfied in my walk with you around the building. About five feet
      and a half from the casement in question there runs a lightning-rod. From
      this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the window
      itself, to say nothing of entering it. I observed, however, that the
      shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by Parisian
      carpenters 
ferrades
—a kind rarely employed at the present
      day, but frequently seen upon very old mansions at Lyons and Bordeaux.
      They are in the form of an ordinary door (a single, not a folding door),
      except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis—thus
      affording an excellent hold for the hands. In the present instance these
      shutters are fully three feet and a half broad. When we saw them from the
      rear of the house, they were both about half open—that is to say,
      they stood off at right angles from the wall. It is probable that the
      police, as well as myself, examined the back of the tenement; but, if so,
      in looking at these 
ferrades
 in the line of their breadth (as they
      must have done), they did not perceive this great breadth itself, or, at
      all events, failed to take it into due consideration. In fact, having once
      satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter,
      they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination. It was clear
      to me, however, that the shutter belonging to the window at the head of
      the bed, would, if swung fully back to the wall, reach to within two feet
      of the lightning-rod. It was also evident that, by exertion of a very
      unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance into the window, from
      the rod, might have been thus effected. By reaching to the distance
      of two feet and a half (we now suppose the shutter open to its whole
      extent) a robber might have taken a firm grasp upon the trellis-work.
      Letting go, then, his hold upon the rod, placing his feet securely against
      the wall, and springing boldly from it, he might have swung the shutter so
      as to close it, and, if we imagine the window open at the time, might even
      have swung himself into the room.
    

      “I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a 
very

      unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so
      difficult a feat. It is my design to show you, first, that the thing might
      possibly have been accomplished:—but, secondly and 
chiefly
, I
      wish to impress upon your understanding the 
very extraordinary
—the
      almost præternatural character of that agility which could have
      accomplished it.
    

      “You will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that ‘to make out
      my case,’ I should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full estimation
      of the activity required in this matter. This may be the practice in law,
      but it is not the usage of reason. My ultimate object is only the truth.
      My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition, that 
very
      unusual
 activity of which I have just spoken with that 
very
      peculiar
 shrill (or harsh) and 
unequal
 voice, about whose
      nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose utterance
      no syllabification could be detected.”
     

      At these words a vague and half-formed conception of the meaning of Dupin
      flitted over my mind. I seemed to be upon the verge of comprehension
      without power to comprehend—as men, at times, find themselves upon the
      brink of remembrance without being able, in the end, to remember. My
      friend went on with his discourse.
    

      “You will see,” he said, “that I have shifted the question from the mode
      of egress to that of ingress. It was my design to convey the idea that
      both were effected in the same manner, at the same point. Let us now
      revert to the interior of the room. Let us survey the appearances here.
      The drawers of the bureau, it is said, had been rifled, although many
      articles of apparel still remained within them. The conclusion here is
      absurd. It is a mere guess—a very silly one—and no more. How
      are we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these
      drawers had originally contained? Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter lived
      an exceedingly retired life—saw no company—seldom went out—had
      little use for numerous changes of habiliment. Those found were at least
      of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies. If a
      thief had taken any, why did he not take the best—why did he not
      take all? In a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to
      encumber himself with a bundle of linen? The gold 
was
 abandoned.
      Nearly the whole sum mentioned by Monsieur Mignaud, the banker, was
      discovered, in bags, upon the floor. I wish you, therefore, to discard
      from your thoughts the blundering idea of 
motive
, engendered in the
      brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of money
      delivered at the door of the house. Coincidences ten times as remarkable
      as this (the delivery of the money, and murder committed within three days
      upon the party receiving it), happen to all of us every hour of our lives,
      without attracting even momentary notice. Coincidences, in general, are
      great stumbling-blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been
      educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities—that theory
      to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the
      most glorious of illustration. In the present instance, had the gold been
      gone, the fact of its delivery three days before would have formed
      something more than a coincidence. It would have been corroborative of
      this idea of motive. But, under the real circumstances of the case, if we
      are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage, we must also imagine the
      perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his
      motive together.
    

      “Keeping now steadily in mind the points to which I have drawn your
      attention—that peculiar voice, that unusual agility, and that
      startling absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this—let
      us glance at the butchery itself. Here is a woman strangled to death by
      manual strength, and thrust up a chimney, head downward. Ordinary
      assassins employ no such modes of murder as this. Least of all, do they
      thus dispose of the murdered. In the manner of thrusting the corpse up the
      chimney, you will admit that there was something 
excessively outré
—something
      altogether irreconcilable with our common notions of human action, even
      when we suppose the actors the most depraved of men. Think, too, how great
      must have been that strength which could have thrust the body 
up

      such an aperture so forcibly that the united vigor of several persons was
      found barely sufficient to drag it 
down!

      “Turn, now, to other indications of the employment of a vigor most
      marvellous. On the hearth were thick tresses—very thick tresses—of
      grey human hair. These had been torn out by the roots. You are aware of
      the great force necessary in tearing thus from the head even twenty or
      thirty hairs together. You saw the locks in question as well as myself.
      Their roots (a hideous sight!) were clotted with fragments of the flesh of
      the scalp—sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted
      in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time. The throat of the
      old lady was not merely cut, but the head absolutely severed from the
      body: the instrument was a mere razor. I wish you also to look at the 
brutal

      ferocity of these deeds. Of the bruises upon the body of Madame L’Espanaye
      I do not speak. Monsieur Dumas, and his worthy coadjutor Monsieur Etienne,
      have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument; and so
      far these gentlemen are very correct. The obtuse instrument was clearly
      the stone pavement in the yard, upon which the victim had fallen from the
      window which looked in upon the bed. This idea, however simple it may now
      seem, escaped the police for the same reason that the breadth of the
      shutters escaped them—because, by the affair of the nails, their
      perceptions had been hermetically sealed against the possibility of the
      windows having ever been opened at all.
    

      “If now, in addition to all these things, you have properly reflected upon
      the odd disorder of the chamber, we have gone so far as to combine the
      ideas of an agility astounding, a strength superhuman, a ferocity brutal,
      a butchery without motive, a 
grotesquerie
 in horror absolutely
      alien from humanity, and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men of
      many nations, and devoid of all distinct or intelligible syllabification.
      What result, then, has ensued? What impression have I made upon your
      fancy?”
     

      I felt a creeping of the flesh as Dupin asked me the question. “A madman,”
       I said, “has done this deed—some raving maniac, escaped from a
      neighboring 
Maison de Santé.
”
     

      “In some respects,” he replied, “your idea is not irrelevant. But the
      voices of madmen, even in their wildest paroxysms, are never found to
      tally with that peculiar voice heard upon the stairs. Madmen are of some
      nation, and their language, however incoherent in its words, has always
      the coherence of syllabification. Besides, the hair of a madman is not
      such as I now hold in my hand. I disentangled this little tuft from the
      rigidly clutched fingers of Madame L’Espanaye. Tell me what you can make
      of it.”
     

      “Dupin!” I said, completely unnerved; “this hair is most unusual—this
      is no 
human
 hair.”
     

      “I have not asserted that it is,” said he; “but, before we decide this
      point, I wish you to glance at the little sketch I have here traced upon
      this paper. It is a 
fac-simile
 drawing of what has been described
      in one portion of the testimony as ‘dark bruises, and deep indentations of
      finger nails,’ upon the throat of Mademoiselle L’Espanaye, and in another
      (by Messrs. Dumas and Etienne,) as a ‘series of livid spots, evidently the
      impression of fingers.’
    

      “You will perceive,” continued my friend, spreading out the paper upon the
      table before us, “that this drawing gives the idea of a firm and fixed
      hold. There is no 
slipping
 apparent. Each finger has retained—possibly
      until the death of the victim—the fearful grasp by which it
      originally imbedded itself. Attempt, now, to place all your fingers, at
      the same time, in the respective impressions as you see them.”
     

      I made the attempt in vain.
    

      “We are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial,” he said. “The paper
      is spread out upon a plane surface; but the human throat is cylindrical.
      Here is a billet of wood, the circumference of which is about that of the
      throat. Wrap the drawing around it, and try the experiment again.”
     

      I did so; but the difficulty was even more obvious than before. “This,” I
      said, “is the mark of no human hand.”
     

      “Read now,” replied Dupin, “this passage from Cuvier.”
     

      It was a minute anatomical and generally descriptive account of the large
      fulvous Ourang-Outang of the East Indian Islands. The gigantic stature,
      the prodigious strength and activity, the wild ferocity, and the imitative
      propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known to all. I
      understood the full horrors of the murder at once.
    

      “The description of the digits,” said I, as I made an end of reading, “is
      in exact accordance with this drawing. I see that no animal but an
      Ourang-Outang, of the species here mentioned, could have impressed the
      indentations as you have traced them. This tuft of tawny hair, too, is
      identical in character with that of the beast of Cuvier. But I cannot
      possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery. Besides,
      there were 
two
 voices heard in contention, and one of them was
      unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman.”
     

      “True; and you will remember an expression attributed almost unanimously,
      by the evidence, to this voice,—the expression, ‘
mon Dieu!
’
      This, under the circumstances, has been justly characterized by one of the
      witnesses (Montani, the confectioner,) as an expression of remonstrance or
      expostulation. Upon these two words, therefore, I have mainly built my
      hopes of a full solution of the riddle. A Frenchman was cognizant of the
      murder. It is possible—indeed it is far more than probable—that
      he was innocent of all participation in the bloody transactions which took
      place. The Ourang-Outang may have escaped from him. He may have traced it
      to the chamber; but, under the agitating circumstances which ensued, he
      could never have re-captured it. It is still at large. I will not pursue
      these guesses—for I have no right to call them more—since the
      shades of reflection upon which they are based are scarcely of sufficient
      depth to be appreciable by my own intellect, and since I could not pretend
      to make them intelligible to the understanding of another. We will call
      them guesses then, and speak of them as such. If the Frenchman in question
      is indeed, as I suppose, innocent of this atrocity, this advertisement
      which I left last night, upon our return home, at the office of ‘Le
      Monde’ (a paper devoted to the shipping interest, and much sought by
      sailors), will bring him to our residence.”
     

      He handed me a paper, and I read thus:
    

      C
AUGHT
—
In the Bois de Boulogne, early in the morning of the ——inst.,

      (the morning of the murder), 
a very large, tawny Ourang-Outang of the
      Bornese species. The owner (who is ascertained to be a sailor, belonging
      to a Maltese vessel) may have the animal again, upon identifying it
      satisfactorily, and paying a few charges arising from its capture and
      keeping. Call at No. ——, Rue ——, Faubourg St.
      Germain—au troisième.

      “How was it possible,” I asked, “that you should know the man to be a
      sailor, and belonging to a Maltese vessel?”
     

      “I do 
not
 know it,” said Dupin. “I am not 
sure
 of it. Here,
      however, is a small piece of ribbon, which from its form, and from its
      greasy appearance, has evidently been used in tying the hair in one of
      those long 
queues
 of which sailors are so fond. Moreover, this knot
      is one which few besides sailors can tie, and is peculiar to the Maltese.
      I picked the ribbon up at the foot of the lightning-rod. It could not have
      belonged to either of the deceased. Now if, after all, I am wrong in my
      induction from this ribbon, that the Frenchman was a sailor belonging to a
      Maltese vessel, still I can have done no harm in saying what I did in the
      advertisement. If I am in error, he will merely suppose that I have been
      misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble to
      inquire. But if I am right, a great point is gained. Cognizant although
      innocent of the murder, the Frenchman will naturally hesitate about
      replying to the advertisement—about demanding the Ourang-Outang. He
      will reason thus:—‘I am innocent; I am poor; my Ourang-Outang is of
      great value—to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself—why
      should I lose it through idle apprehensions of danger? Here it is, within
      my grasp. It was found in the Bois de Boulogne—at a vast distance
      from the scene of that butchery. How can it ever be suspected that a brute
      beast should have done the deed? The police are at fault—they have
      failed to procure the slightest clew. Should they even trace the animal,
      it would be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder, or to
      implicate me in guilt on account of that cognizance. Above all, 
I am
      known.
 The advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast. I
      am not sure to what limit his knowledge may extend. Should I avoid
      claiming a property of so great value, which it is known that I possess, I
      will render the animal at least, liable to suspicion. It is not my policy
      to attract attention either to myself or to the beast. I will answer the
      advertisement, get the Ourang-Outang, and keep it close until this matter
      has blown over.’”
     

      At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.
    

      “Be ready,” said Dupin, “with your pistols, but neither use them nor show
      them until at a signal from myself.”
     

      The front door of the house had been left open, and the visitor had
      entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase.
      Now, however, he seemed to hesitate. Presently we heard him descending.
      Dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up.
      He did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and
      rapped at the door of our chamber.
    

      “Come in,” said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone.
    

      A man entered. He was a sailor, evidently,—a tall, stout, and
      muscular-looking person, with a certain dare-devil expression of
      countenance, not altogether unprepossessing. His face, greatly sunburnt,
      was more than half hidden by whisker and 
mustachio.
 He had with him
      a huge oaken cudgel, but appeared to be otherwise unarmed. He bowed
      awkwardly, and bade us “good evening,” in French accents, which, although
      somewhat Neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a Parisian
      origin.
    

      “Sit down, my friend,” said Dupin. “I suppose you have called about the
      Ourang-Outang. Upon my word, I almost envy you the possession of him; a
      remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal. How old do you
      suppose him to be?”
     

      The sailor drew a long breath, with the air of a man relieved of some
      intolerable burden, and then replied, in an assured tone:
    

      “I have no way of telling—but he can’t be more than four or five
      years old. Have you got him here?”
     

      “Oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here. He is at a livery
      stable in the Rue Dubourg, just by. You can get him in the morning. Of
      course you are prepared to identify the property?”
     

      “To be sure I am, sir.”
     

      “I shall be sorry to part with him,” said Dupin.
    

      “I don’t mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir,”
       said the man. “Couldn’t expect it. Am very willing to pay a reward for the
      finding of the animal—that is to say, any thing in reason.”
     

      “Well,” replied my friend, “that is all very fair, to be sure. Let me
      think!—what should I have? Oh! I will tell you. My reward shall be
      this. You shall give me all the information in your power about these
      murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly. Just as
      quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in his
      pocket. He then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it, without the
      least flurry, upon the table.
    

      The sailor’s face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation. He
      started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he fell
      back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance of death
      itself. He spoke not a word. I pitied him from the bottom of my heart.
    

      “My friend,” said Dupin, in a kind tone, “you are alarming yourself
      unnecessarily—you are indeed. We mean you no harm whatever. I pledge
      you the honor of a gentleman, and of a Frenchman, that we intend you no
      injury. I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities in
      the Rue Morgue. It will not do, however, to deny that you are in some
      measure implicated in them. From what I have already said, you must know
      that I have had means of information about this matter—means of
      which you could never have dreamed. Now the thing stands thus. You have
      done nothing which you could have avoided—nothing, certainly, which
      renders you culpable. You were not even guilty of robbery, when you might
      have robbed with impunity. You have nothing to conceal. You have no reason
      for concealment. On the other hand, you are bound by every principle of
      honor to confess all you know. An innocent man is now imprisoned, charged
      with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator.”
     

      The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while
      Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all
      gone.
    

      “So help me God!” said he, after a brief pause, “I 
will
 tell you all I
      know about this affair;—but I do not expect you to believe one half
      I say—I would be a fool indeed if I did. Still, I 
am
 innocent, and I
      will make a clean breast if I die for it.”
     

      What he stated was, in substance, this. He had lately made a voyage to the
      Indian Archipelago. A party, of which he formed one, landed at Borneo, and
      passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure. Himself and a
      companion had captured the Ourang-Outang. This companion dying, the animal
      fell into his own exclusive possession. After great trouble, occasioned by
      the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage, he at
      length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in Paris,
      where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his
      neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such time as it should
      recover from a wound in the foot, received from a splinter on board ship.
      His ultimate design was to sell it.
    

      Returning home from some sailors’ frolic the night, or rather in the
      morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed-room, into
      which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as was
      thought, securely confined. Razor in hand, and fully lathered, it was
      sitting before a looking-glass, attempting the operation of shaving, in
      which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key-hole
      of the closet. Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the
      possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use it, the man,
      for some moments, was at a loss what to do. He had been accustomed,
      however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of
      a whip, and to this he now resorted. Upon sight of it, the Ourang-Outang
      sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and
      thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street.
    

      The Frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand,
      occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until
      the latter had nearly come up with it. It then again made off. In this
      manner the chase continued for a long time. The streets were profoundly
      quiet, as it was nearly three o’clock in the morning. In passing down an
      alley in the rear of the Rue Morgue, the fugitive’s attention was arrested
      by a light gleaming from the open window of Madame L’Espanaye’s chamber,
      in the fourth story of her house. Rushing to the building, it perceived
      the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility, grasped the
      shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and, by its means,
      swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed. The whole feat did
      not occupy a minute. The shutter was kicked open again by the
      Ourang-Outang as it entered the room.
    

      The sailor, in the meantime, was both rejoiced and perplexed. He had
      strong hopes of now recapturing the brute, as it could scarcely escape
      from the trap into which it had ventured, except by the rod, where it
      might be intercepted as it came down. On the other hand, there was much
      cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house. This latter
      reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive. A lightning rod is
      ascended without difficulty, especially by a sailor; but, when he had
      arrived as high as the window, which lay far to his left, his career was
      stopped; the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to
      obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room. At this glimpse he nearly
      fell from his hold through excess of horror. Now it was that those hideous
      shrieks arose upon the night, which had startled from slumber the inmates
      of the Rue Morgue. Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter, habited in their
      night clothes, had apparently been occupied in arranging some papers in
      the iron chest already mentioned, which had been wheeled into the middle
      of the room. It was open, and its contents lay beside it on the floor. The
      victims must have been sitting with their backs toward the window; and,
      from the time elapsing between the ingress of the beast and the screams,
      it seems probable that it was not immediately perceived. The flapping-to
      of the shutter would naturally have been attributed to the wind.
    

      As the sailor looked in, the gigantic animal had seized Madame L’Espanaye
      by the hair, (which was loose, as she had been combing it,) and was
      flourishing the razor about her face, in imitation of the motions of a
      barber. The daughter lay prostrate and motionless; she had swooned. The
      screams and struggles of the old lady (during which the hair was torn from
      her head) had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the
      Ourang-Outang into those of wrath. With one determined sweep of its
      muscular arm it nearly severed her head from her body. The sight of blood
      inflamed its anger into phrenzy. Gnashing its teeth, and flashing fire
      from its eyes, it flew upon the body of the girl, and imbedded its fearful
      talons in her throat, retaining its grasp until she expired. Its wandering
      and wild glances fell at this moment upon the head of the bed, over which
      the face of its master, rigid with horror, was just discernible. The fury
      of the beast, who no doubt bore still in mind the dreaded whip, was
      instantly converted into fear. Conscious of having deserved punishment, it
      seemed desirous of concealing its bloody deeds, and skipped about the
      chamber in an agony of nervous agitation; throwing down and breaking the
      furniture as it moved, and dragging the bed from the bedstead. In
      conclusion, it seized first the corpse of the daughter, and thrust it up
      the chimney, as it was found; then that of the old lady, which it
      immediately hurled through the window headlong.
    

      As the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden, the sailor
      shrank aghast to the rod, and, rather gliding than clambering down it,
      hurried at once home—dreading the consequences of the butchery, and
      gladly abandoning, in his terror, all solicitude about the fate of the
      Ourang-Outang. The words heard by the party upon the staircase were the
      Frenchman’s exclamations of horror and affright, commingled with the
      fiendish jabberings of the brute.
    

      I have scarcely anything to add. The Ourang-Outang must have escaped from
      the chamber, by the rod, just before the breaking of the door. It must have
      closed the window as it passed through it. It was subsequently caught by
      the owner himself, who obtained for it a very large sum at the 
Jardin
      des Plantes.
 Le Don was instantly released, upon our narration of the
      circumstances (with some comments from Dupin) at the bureau of the Prefect
      of Police. This functionary, however well disposed to my friend, could not
      altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which affairs had taken, and
      was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two, about the propriety of every
      person minding his own business.
    

      “Let him talk,” said Dupin, who had not thought it necessary to reply.
      “Let him discourse; it will ease his conscience, I am satisfied with
      having defeated him in his own castle. Nevertheless, that he failed in the
      solution of this mystery, is by no means that matter for wonder which he
      supposes it; for, in truth, our friend the Prefect is somewhat too cunning
      to be profound. In his wisdom is no 
stamen.
 It is all head and no
      body, like the pictures of the Goddess Laverna,—or, at best, all
      head and shoulders, like a codfish. But he is a good creature after all. I
      like him especially for one master stroke of cant, by which he has
      attained his reputation for ingenuity. I mean the way he has ‘
de nier
      ce qui est, et d’expliquer ce qui n’est pas.
’” (*)
    

      (*) Rousseau—Nouvelle Heloïse.