“
Jules Mignaud
, banker, of the firm of Mignaud et Fils, Rue
      Deloraine. Is the elder Mignaud. Madame L’Espanaye had some property. Had
      opened an account with his banking house in the spring of the year—(eight
      years previously). Made frequent deposits in small sums. Had checked for
      nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in person
      the sum of 4000 francs. This sum was paid in gold, and a clerk went home
      with the money.
    

      “
Adolphe Le Bon
, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day
      in question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L’Espanaye to her residence
      with the 4000 francs, put up in two bags. Upon the door being opened,
      Mademoiselle L. appeared and took from his hands one of the bags, while
      the old lady relieved him of the other. He then bowed and departed. Did
      not see any person in the street at the time. It is a by-street—very
      lonely.
    

      “
William Bird
, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who
      entered the house. Is an Englishman. Has lived in Paris two years. Was one
      of the first to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in contention. The
      gruff voice was that of a Frenchman. Could make out several words, but
      cannot now remember all. Heard distinctly ‘
sacré
’ and ‘
mon
      Dieu.
’ There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons
      struggling—a scraping and scuffling sound. The shrill voice was very
      loud—louder than the gruff one. Is sure that it was not the voice of
      an Englishman. Appeared to be that of a German. Might have been a woman’s
      voice. Does not understand German.
    

      “Four of the above-named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the door
      of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L. was locked
      on the inside when the party reached it. Every thing was perfectly silent—no
      groans or noises of any kind. Upon forcing the door no person was seen.
      The windows, both of the back and front room, were down and firmly
      fastened from within. A door between the two rooms was closed, but not
      locked. The door leading from the front room into the passage was locked,
      with the key on the inside. A small room in the front of the house, on the
      fourth story, at the head of the passage was open, the door being ajar.
      This room was crowded with old beds, boxes, and so forth. These were
      carefully removed and searched. There was not an inch of any portion of
      the house which was not carefully searched. Sweeps were sent up and down
      the chimneys. The house was a four story one, with garrets (
mansardes.
)
      A trap-door on the roof was nailed down very securely—did not appear
      to have been opened for years. The time elapsing between the hearing of
      the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door, was
      variously stated by the witnesses. Some made it as short as three minutes—some
      as long as five. The door was opened with difficulty.
    

      “
Alfonzo Garcio
, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the Rue
      Morgue. Is a native of Spain. Was one of the party who entered the house.
      Did not proceed up stairs. Is nervous, and was apprehensive of the
      consequences of agitation. Heard the voices in contention. The gruff voice
      was that of a Frenchman. Could not distinguish what was said. The shrill
      voice was that of an Englishman—is sure of this. Does not understand
      the English language, but judges by the intonation.
    

      “
Alberto Montani
, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first
      to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in question. The gruff voice was
      that of a Frenchman. Distinguished several words. The speaker appeared to
      be expostulating. Could not make out the words of the shrill voice. Spoke
      quick and unevenly. Thinks it the voice of a Russian. Corroborates the
      general testimony. Is an Italian. Never conversed with a native of Russia.
    

      “Several witnesses, recalled, here testified that the chimneys of all the
      rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a human
      being. By ‘sweeps’ were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes, such as are
      employed by those who clean chimneys. These brushes were passed up and
      down every flue in the house. There is no back passage by which any one
      could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs. The body of
      Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that it could
      not be got down until four or five of the party united their strength.
    

      “
Paul Dumas
, physician, deposes that he was called to view the
      bodies about day-break. They were both then lying on the sacking of the
      bedstead in the chamber where Mademoiselle L. was found. The corpse of the
      young lady was much bruised and excoriated. The fact that it had been
      thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these appearances.
      The throat was greatly chafed. There were several deep scratches just
      below the chin, together with a series of livid spots which were evidently
      the impression of fingers. The face was fearfully discolored, and the
      eye-balls protruded. The tongue had been partially bitten through. A large
      bruise was discovered upon the pit of the stomach, produced, apparently,
      by the pressure of a knee. In the opinion of M. Dumas, Mademoiselle
      L’Espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown.
      The corpse of the mother was horribly mutilated. All the bones of the
      right leg and arm were more or less shattered. The left 
tibia
 much
      splintered, as well as all the ribs of the left side. Whole body
      dreadfully bruised and discolored. It was not possible to say how the
      injuries had been inflicted. A heavy club of wood, or a broad bar of iron—a
      chair—any large, heavy, and obtuse weapon would have produced such
      results, if wielded by the hands of a very powerful man. No woman could
      have inflicted the blows with any weapon. The head of the deceased, when
      seen by witness, was entirely separated from the body, and was also
      greatly shattered. The throat had evidently been cut with some very sharp
      instrument—probably with a razor.
    

      “
Alexandre Etienne
, surgeon, was called with M. Dumas to view the
      bodies. Corroborated the testimony, and the opinions of M. Dumas.
    

      “Nothing farther of importance was elicited, although several other
      persons were examined. A murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all
      its particulars, was never before committed in Paris—if indeed a
      murder has been committed at all. The police are entirely at fault—an
      unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature. There is not, however, the
      shadow of a clew apparent.”
     

      The evening edition of the paper stated that the greatest excitement still
      continued in the Quartier St. Roch—that the premises in question had
      been carefully re-searched, and fresh examinations of witnesses
      instituted, but all to no purpose. A postscript, however, mentioned that
      Adolphe Le Bon had been arrested and imprisoned—although nothing
      appeared to criminate him, beyond the facts already detailed.
    

      Dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair—at
      least so I judged from his manner, for he made no comments. It was only
      after the announcement that Le Bon had been imprisoned, that he asked me
      my opinion respecting the murders.
    

      I could merely agree with all Paris in considering them an insoluble
      mystery. I saw no means by which it would be possible to trace the
      murderer.
    

      “We must not judge of the means,” said Dupin, “by this shell of an
      examination. The Parisian police, so much extolled for 
acumen
, are
      cunning, but no more. There is no method in their proceedings, beyond the
      method of the moment. They make a vast parade of measures; but, not
      unfrequently, these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed, as to put
      us in mind of Monsieur Jourdain’s calling for his 
robe-de-chambre—pour
      mieux entendre la musique.
 The results attained by them are not
      unfrequently surprising, but, for the most part, are brought about by
      simple diligence and activity. When these qualities are unavailing, their
      schemes fail. Vidocq, for example, was a good guesser and a persevering
      man. But, without educated thought, he erred continually by the very
      intensity of his investigations. He impaired his vision by holding the
      object too close. He might see, perhaps, one or two points with unusual
      clearness, but in so doing he, necessarily, lost sight of the matter as a
      whole. Thus there is such a thing as being too profound. Truth is not
      always in a well. In fact, as regards the more important knowledge, I do
      believe that she is invariably superficial. The depth lies in the valleys
      where we seek her, and not upon the mountain-tops where she is found. The
      modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the
      contemplation of the heavenly bodies. To look at a star by glances—to
      view it in a side-long way, by turning toward it the exterior portions of
      the 
retina
 (more susceptible of feeble impressions of light than
      the interior), is to behold the star distinctly—is to have the best
      appreciation of its lustre—a lustre which grows dim just in
      proportion as we turn our vision 
fully
 upon it. A greater number of
      rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter case, but, in the former,
      there is the more refined capacity for comprehension. By undue profundity
      we perplex and enfeeble thought; and it is possible to make even Venus
      herself vanish from the firmament by a scrutiny too sustained, too
      concentrated, or too direct.
    

      “As for these murders, let us enter into some examinations for ourselves,
      before we make up an opinion respecting them. An inquiry will afford us
      amusement,” [I thought this an odd term, so applied, but said nothing]
      “and, besides, Le Bon once rendered me a service for which I am not
      ungrateful. We will go and see the premises with our own eyes. I know G——,
      the Prefect of Police, and shall have no difficulty in obtaining the
      necessary permission.”
     

      The permission was obtained, and we proceeded at once to the Rue Morgue.
      This is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the
      Rue Richelieu and the Rue St. Roch. It was late in the afternoon when we
      reached it, as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we
      resided. The house was readily found; for there were still many persons
      gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from the
      opposite side of the way. It was an ordinary Parisian house, with a
      gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch-box, with a sliding panel
      in the window, indicating a 
loge de concierge.
 Before going in we
      walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning,
      passed in the rear of the building—Dupin, meanwhile examining the
      whole neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention
      for which I could see no possible object.
    

      Retracing our steps, we came again to the front of the dwelling, rang,
      and, having shown our credentials, were admitted by the agents in charge.
      We went up stairs—into the chamber where the body of Mademoiselle
      L’Espanaye had been found, and where both the deceased still lay. The
      disorders of the room had, as usual, been suffered to exist. I saw nothing
      beyond what had been stated in the “Gazette des Tribunaux.” Dupin
      scrutinized every thing—not excepting the bodies of the victims. We
      then went into the other rooms, and into the yard; a 
gendarme

      accompanying us throughout. The examination occupied us until dark, when
      we took our departure. On our way home my companion stepped in for a
      moment at the office of one of the daily papers.
    

      I have said that the whims of my friend were manifold, and that 
Je les
      ménageais
:—for this phrase there is no English equivalent.
      It was his humor, now, to decline all conversation on the subject of the
      murder, until about noon the next day. He then asked me, suddenly, if I
      had observed any thing 
peculiar
 at the scene of the atrocity.
    

      There was something in his manner of emphasizing the word “peculiar,”
       which caused me to shudder, without knowing why.
    

      “No, nothing 
peculiar
,” I said; “nothing more, at least, than we
      both saw stated in the paper.”
     

      “The ‘Gazette,’” he replied, “has not entered, I fear, into the unusual
      horror of the thing. But dismiss the idle opinions of this print. It
      appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble, for the very
      reason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution—I
      mean for the 
outré
 character of its features. The police are
      confounded by the seeming absence of motive—not for the murder
      itself—but for the atrocity of the murder. They are puzzled, too, by
      the seeming impossibility of reconciling the voices heard in contention,
      with the facts that no one was discovered up stairs but the assassinated
      Mademoiselle L’Espanaye, and that there were no means of egress without
      the notice of the party ascending. The wild disorder of the room; the
      corpse thrust, with the head downward, up the chimney; the frightful
      mutilation of the body of the old lady; these considerations, with those
      just mentioned, and others which I need not mention, have sufficed to
      paralyze the powers, by putting completely at fault the boasted 
acumen
,
      of the government agents. They have fallen into the gross but common error
      of confounding the unusual with the abstruse. But it is by these
      deviations from the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels its way, if
      at all, in its search for the true. In investigations such as we are now
      pursuing, it should not be so much asked ‘what has occurred,’ as ‘what has
      occurred that has never occurred before.’ In fact, the facility with which
      I shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution of this mystery, is in
      the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of the police.”
     

      I stared at the speaker in mute astonishment.
    

      “I am now awaiting,” continued he, looking toward the door of our
      apartment—“I am now awaiting a person who, although perhaps not the
      perpetrator of these butcheries, must have been in some measure implicated
      in their perpetration. Of the worst portion of the crimes committed, it is
      probable that he is innocent. I hope that I am right in this supposition;
      for upon it I build my expectation of reading the entire riddle. I look
      for the man here—in this room—every moment. It is true that he
      may not arrive; but the probability is that he will. Should he come, it
      will be necessary to detain him. Here are pistols; and we both know how to
      use them when occasion demands their use.”
     

      I took the pistols, scarcely knowing what I did, or believing what I
      heard, while Dupin went on, very much as if in a soliloquy. I have already
      spoken of his abstract manner at such times. His discourse was addressed
      to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that intonation
      which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance.
      His eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall.
    

      “That the voices heard in contention,” he said, “by the party upon the
      stairs, were not the voices of the women themselves, was fully proved by
      the evidence. This relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether the
      old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have
      committed suicide. I speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method;
      for the strength of Madame L’Espanaye would have been utterly unequal to
      the task of thrusting her daughter’s corpse up the chimney as it was
      found; and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely preclude
      the idea of self-destruction. Murder, then, has been committed by some
      third party; and the voices of this third party were those heard in
      contention. Let me now advert—not to the whole testimony respecting
      these voices—but to what was 
peculiar
 in that testimony. Did
      you observe any thing peculiar about it?”
     

      I remarked that, while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff
      voice to be that of a Frenchman, there was much disagreement in regard to
      the shrill, or, as one individual termed it, the harsh voice.
    

      “That was the evidence itself,” said Dupin, “but it was not the
      peculiarity of the evidence. You have observed nothing distinctive. Yet
      there 
was
 something to be observed. The witnesses, as you remark,
      agreed about the gruff voice; they were here unanimous. But in regard to
      the shrill voice, the peculiarity is—not that they disagreed—but
      that, while an Italian, an Englishman, a Spaniard, a Hollander, and a
      Frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that 
of a
      foreigner
. Each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own
      countrymen. Each likens it—not to the voice of an individual of any
      nation with whose language he is conversant—but the converse. The
      Frenchman supposes it the voice of a Spaniard, and ‘might have
      distinguished some words 
had he been acquainted with the Spanish.
’
      The Dutchman maintains it to have been that of a Frenchman; but we find it
      stated that ‘
not understanding French this witness was examined through
      an interpreter.
’ The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German, and ‘
does
      not understand German.
’ The Spaniard ‘is sure’ that it was that of an
      Englishman, but ‘judges by the intonation’ altogether, ‘
as he has no
      knowledge of the English.
’ The Italian believes it the voice of a
      Russian, but ‘
has never conversed with a native of Russia.
’ A
      second Frenchman differs, moreover, with the first, and is positive that
      the voice was that of an Italian; but, 
not being cognizant of that
      tongue
, is, like the Spaniard, ‘convinced by the intonation.’ Now, how
      strangely unusual must that voice have really been, about which such
      testimony as this 
could
 have been elicited!—in whose 
tones
,
      even, denizens of the five great divisions of Europe could recognise
      nothing familiar! You will say that it might have been the voice of an
      Asiatic—of an African. Neither Asiatics nor Africans abound in
      Paris; but, without denying the inference, I will now merely call your
      attention to three points. The voice is termed by one witness ‘harsh
      rather than shrill.’ It is represented by two others to have been ‘quick
      and 
unequal.
’ No words—no sounds resembling words—were
      by any witness mentioned as distinguishable.
    

      “I know not,” continued Dupin, “what impression I may have made, so far,
      upon your own understanding; but I do not hesitate to say that legitimate
      deductions even from this portion of the testimony—the portion
      respecting the gruff and shrill voices—are in themselves sufficient
      to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all farther
      progress in the investigation of the mystery. I said ‘legitimate
      deductions;’ but my meaning is not thus fully expressed. I designed to
      imply that the deductions are the 
sole
 proper ones, and that the
      suspicion arises 
inevitably
 from them as the single result. What
      the suspicion is, however, I will not say just yet. I merely wish you to
      bear in mind that, with myself, it was sufficiently forcible to give a
      definite form—a certain tendency—to my inquiries in the
      chamber.
    

      “Let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber. What shall we
      first seek here? The means of egress employed by the murderers. It is not
      too much to say that neither of us believe in præternatural events.
      Madame and Mademoiselle L’Espanaye were not destroyed by spirits. The
      doers of the deed were material, and escaped materially. Then how?
      Fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that
      mode 
must
 lead us to a definite decision. Let us examine,
      each by each, the possible means of egress. It is clear that the assassins
      were in the room where Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was found, or at least in
      the room adjoining, when the party ascended the stairs. It is then only
      from these two apartments that we have to seek issues. The police have
      laid bare the floors, the ceilings, and the masonry of the walls, in every
      direction. No 
secret
 issues could have escaped their vigilance.
      But, not trusting to 
their
 eyes, I examined with my own. There
      were, then, no secret issues. Both doors leading from the rooms into the
      passage were securely locked, with the keys inside. Let us turn to the
      chimneys. These, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet
      above the hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a
      large cat. The impossibility of egress, by means already stated, being
      thus absolute, we are reduced to the windows. Through those of the front
      room no one could have escaped without notice from the crowd in the
      street. The murderers 
must
 have passed, then, through those of the
      back room. Now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as
      we are, it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of
      apparent impossibilities. It is only left for us to prove that these
      apparent ‘impossibilities’ are, in reality, not such.
    

      “There are two windows in the chamber. One of them is unobstructed by
      furniture, and is wholly visible. The lower portion of the other is hidden
      from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up
      against it. The former was found securely fastened from within. It
      resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it. A large
      gimlet-hole had been pierced in its frame to the left, and a very stout
      nail was found fitted therein, nearly to the head. Upon examining the
      other window, a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it; and a
      vigorous attempt to raise this sash, failed also. The police were now
      entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions. And, 
therefore
,
      it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open
      the windows.
    

      “My own examination was somewhat more particular, and was so for the
      reason I have just given—because here it was, I knew, that all
      apparent impossibilities 
must
 be proved to be not such in reality.
    

      “I proceeded to think thus—
a posteriori
. The murderers
      did escape from one of these windows. This being so, they could not have
      refastened the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened;—the
      consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny
      of the police in this quarter. Yet the sashes 
were
 fastened. They
      
must
, then, have the power of fastening themselves. There was no
      escape from this conclusion. I stepped to the unobstructed casement,
      withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash. It
      resisted all my efforts, as I had anticipated. A concealed spring must, I
      now know, exist; and this corroboration of my idea convinced me that my
      premises at least, were correct, however mysterious still appeared the
      circumstances attending the nails. A careful search soon brought to light
      the hidden spring. I pressed it, and, satisfied with the discovery,
      forbore to upraise the sash.
    

      “I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively. A person passing out
      through this window might have reclosed it, and the spring would have
      caught—but the nail could not have been replaced. The conclusion was
      plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations. The assassins
      
must
 have escaped through the other window. Supposing, then, the
      springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there 
must

      be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes of
      their fixture. Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, I looked over the
      head-board minutely at the second casement. Passing my hand down behind
      the board, I readily discovered and pressed the spring, which was, as I
      had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor. I now looked at
      the nail. It was as stout as the other, and apparently fitted in the same
      manner—driven in nearly up to the head.
    

      “You will say that I was puzzled; but, if you think so, you must have
      misunderstood the nature of the inductions. To use a sporting phrase, I
      had not been once ‘at fault.’ The scent had never for an instant been
      lost. There was no flaw in any link of the chain. I had traced the secret
      to its ultimate result,—and that result was 
the nail.
 It had,
      I say, in every respect, the appearance of its fellow in the other window;
      but this fact was an absolute nullity (conclusive as it might seem to be)
      when compared with the consideration that here, at this point, terminated
      the clew. ‘There 
must
 be something wrong,’ I said, ‘about the
      nail.’ I touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an inch of the
      shank, came off in my fingers. The rest of the shank was in the
      gimlet-hole where it had been broken off. The fracture was an old one (for
      its edges were incrusted with rust), and had apparently been accomplished
      by the blow of a hammer, which had partially imbedded, in the top of the
      bottom sash, the head portion of the nail. I now carefully replaced this
      head portion in the indentation whence I had taken it, and the resemblance
      to a perfect nail was complete—the fissure was invisible. Pressing
      the spring, I gently raised the sash for a few inches; the head went up
      with it, remaining firm in its bed. I closed the window, and the semblance
      of the whole nail was again perfect.
    

      “The riddle, so far, was now unriddled. The assassin had escaped through
      the window which looked upon the bed. Dropping of its own accord upon his
      exit (or perhaps purposely closed), it had become fastened by the spring;
      and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the
      police for that of the nail,—farther inquiry being thus considered
      unnecessary.