      I stared at the speaker in mute astonishment.
    

      “I am now awaiting,” continued he, looking toward the door of our
      apartment—“I am now awaiting a person who, although perhaps not the
      perpetrator of these butcheries, must have been in some measure implicated
      in their perpetration. Of the worst portion of the crimes committed, it is
      probable that he is innocent. I hope that I am right in this supposition;
      for upon it I build my expectation of reading the entire riddle. I look
      for the man here—in this room—every moment. It is true that he
      may not arrive; but the probability is that he will. Should he come, it
      will be necessary to detain him. Here are pistols; and we both know how to
      use them when occasion demands their use.”
     

      I took the pistols, scarcely knowing what I did, or believing what I
      heard, while Dupin went on, very much as if in a soliloquy. I have already
      spoken of his abstract manner at such times. His discourse was addressed
      to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that intonation
      which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance.
      His eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall.
    

      “That the voices heard in contention,” he said, “by the party upon the
      stairs, were not the voices of the women themselves, was fully proved by
      the evidence. This relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether the
      old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have
      committed suicide. I speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method;
      for the strength of Madame L’Espanaye would have been utterly unequal to
      the task of thrusting her daughter’s corpse up the chimney as it was
      found; and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely preclude
      the idea of self-destruction. Murder, then, has been committed by some
      third party; and the voices of this third party were those heard in
      contention. Let me now advert—not to the whole testimony respecting
      these voices—but to what was 
peculiar
 in that testimony. Did
      you observe any thing peculiar about it?”
     

      I remarked that, while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff
      voice to be that of a Frenchman, there was much disagreement in regard to
      the shrill, or, as one individual termed it, the harsh voice.
    

      “That was the evidence itself,” said Dupin, “but it was not the
      peculiarity of the evidence. You have observed nothing distinctive. Yet
      there 
was
 something to be observed. The witnesses, as you remark,
      agreed about the gruff voice; they were here unanimous. But in regard to
      the shrill voice, the peculiarity is—not that they disagreed—but
      that, while an Italian, an Englishman, a Spaniard, a Hollander, and a
      Frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that 
of a
      foreigner
. Each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own
      countrymen. Each likens it—not to the voice of an individual of any
      nation with whose language he is conversant—but the converse. The
      Frenchman supposes it the voice of a Spaniard, and ‘might have
      distinguished some words 
had he been acquainted with the Spanish.
’
      The Dutchman maintains it to have been that of a Frenchman; but we find it
      stated that ‘
not understanding French this witness was examined through
      an interpreter.
’ The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German, and ‘
does
      not understand German.
’ The Spaniard ‘is sure’ that it was that of an
      Englishman, but ‘judges by the intonation’ altogether, ‘
as he has no
      knowledge of the English.
’ The Italian believes it the voice of a
      Russian, but ‘
has never conversed with a native of Russia.
’ A
      second Frenchman differs, moreover, with the first, and is positive that
      the voice was that of an Italian; but, 
not being cognizant of that
      tongue
, is, like the Spaniard, ‘convinced by the intonation.’ Now, how
      strangely unusual must that voice have really been, about which such
      testimony as this 
could
 have been elicited!—in whose 
tones
,
      even, denizens of the five great divisions of Europe could recognise
      nothing familiar! You will say that it might have been the voice of an
      Asiatic—of an African. Neither Asiatics nor Africans abound in
      Paris; but, without denying the inference, I will now merely call your
      attention to three points. The voice is termed by one witness ‘harsh
      rather than shrill.’ It is represented by two others to have been ‘quick
      and 
unequal.
’ No words—no sounds resembling words—were
      by any witness mentioned as distinguishable.
    

      “I know not,” continued Dupin, “what impression I may have made, so far,
      upon your own understanding; but I do not hesitate to say that legitimate
      deductions even from this portion of the testimony—the portion
      respecting the gruff and shrill voices—are in themselves sufficient
      to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all farther
      progress in the investigation of the mystery. I said ‘legitimate
      deductions;’ but my meaning is not thus fully expressed. I designed to
      imply that the deductions are the 
sole
 proper ones, and that the
      suspicion arises 
inevitably
 from them as the single result. What
      the suspicion is, however, I will not say just yet. I merely wish you to
      bear in mind that, with myself, it was sufficiently forcible to give a
      definite form—a certain tendency—to my inquiries in the
      chamber.
    

      “Let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber. What shall we
      first seek here? The means of egress employed by the murderers. It is not
      too much to say that neither of us believe in præternatural events.
      Madame and Mademoiselle L’Espanaye were not destroyed by spirits. The
      doers of the deed were material, and escaped materially. Then how?
      Fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that
      mode 
must
 lead us to a definite decision. Let us examine,
      each by each, the possible means of egress. It is clear that the assassins
      were in the room where Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was found, or at least in
      the room adjoining, when the party ascended the stairs. It is then only
      from these two apartments that we have to seek issues. The police have
      laid bare the floors, the ceilings, and the masonry of the walls, in every
      direction. No 
secret
 issues could have escaped their vigilance.
      But, not trusting to 
their
 eyes, I examined with my own. There
      were, then, no secret issues. Both doors leading from the rooms into the
      passage were securely locked, with the keys inside. Let us turn to the
      chimneys. These, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet
      above the hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a
      large cat. The impossibility of egress, by means already stated, being
      thus absolute, we are reduced to the windows. Through those of the front
      room no one could have escaped without notice from the crowd in the
      street. The murderers 
must
 have passed, then, through those of the
      back room. Now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as
      we are, it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of
      apparent impossibilities. It is only left for us to prove that these
      apparent ‘impossibilities’ are, in reality, not such.
    

      “There are two windows in the chamber. One of them is unobstructed by
      furniture, and is wholly visible. The lower portion of the other is hidden
      from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up
      against it. The former was found securely fastened from within. It
      resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it. A large
      gimlet-hole had been pierced in its frame to the left, and a very stout
      nail was found fitted therein, nearly to the head. Upon examining the
      other window, a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it; and a
      vigorous attempt to raise this sash, failed also. The police were now
      entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions. And, 
therefore
,
      it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open
      the windows.
    

      “My own examination was somewhat more particular, and was so for the
      reason I have just given—because here it was, I knew, that all
      apparent impossibilities 
must
 be proved to be not such in reality.
    

      “I proceeded to think thus—
a posteriori
. The murderers
      did escape from one of these windows. This being so, they could not have
      refastened the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened;—the
      consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny
      of the police in this quarter. Yet the sashes 
were
 fastened. They
      
must
, then, have the power of fastening themselves. There was no
      escape from this conclusion. I stepped to the unobstructed casement,
      withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash. It
      resisted all my efforts, as I had anticipated. A concealed spring must, I
      now know, exist; and this corroboration of my idea convinced me that my
      premises at least, were correct, however mysterious still appeared the
      circumstances attending the nails. A careful search soon brought to light
      the hidden spring. I pressed it, and, satisfied with the discovery,
      forbore to upraise the sash.
    

      “I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively. A person passing out
      through this window might have reclosed it, and the spring would have
      caught—but the nail could not have been replaced. The conclusion was
      plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations. The assassins
      
must
 have escaped through the other window. Supposing, then, the
      springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there 
must

      be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes of
      their fixture. Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, I looked over the
      head-board minutely at the second casement. Passing my hand down behind
      the board, I readily discovered and pressed the spring, which was, as I
      had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor. I now looked at
      the nail. It was as stout as the other, and apparently fitted in the same
      manner—driven in nearly up to the head.
    

      “You will say that I was puzzled; but, if you think so, you must have
      misunderstood the nature of the inductions. To use a sporting phrase, I
      had not been once ‘at fault.’ The scent had never for an instant been
      lost. There was no flaw in any link of the chain. I had traced the secret
      to its ultimate result,—and that result was 
the nail.
 It had,
      I say, in every respect, the appearance of its fellow in the other window;
      but this fact was an absolute nullity (conclusive as it might seem to be)
      when compared with the consideration that here, at this point, terminated
      the clew. ‘There 
must
 be something wrong,’ I said, ‘about the
      nail.’ I touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an inch of the
      shank, came off in my fingers. The rest of the shank was in the
      gimlet-hole where it had been broken off. The fracture was an old one (for
      its edges were incrusted with rust), and had apparently been accomplished
      by the blow of a hammer, which had partially imbedded, in the top of the
      bottom sash, the head portion of the nail. I now carefully replaced this
      head portion in the indentation whence I had taken it, and the resemblance
      to a perfect nail was complete—the fissure was invisible. Pressing
      the spring, I gently raised the sash for a few inches; the head went up
      with it, remaining firm in its bed. I closed the window, and the semblance
      of the whole nail was again perfect.
    

      “The riddle, so far, was now unriddled. The assassin had escaped through
      the window which looked upon the bed. Dropping of its own accord upon his
      exit (or perhaps purposely closed), it had become fastened by the spring;
      and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the
      police for that of the nail,—farther inquiry being thus considered
      unnecessary.