      “There are two windows in the chamber. One of them is unobstructed by
      furniture, and is wholly visible. The lower portion of the other is hidden
      from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up
      against it. The former was found securely fastened from within. It
      resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it. A large
      gimlet-hole had been pierced in its frame to the left, and a very stout
      nail was found fitted therein, nearly to the head. Upon examining the
      other window, a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it; and a
      vigorous attempt to raise this sash, failed also. The police were now
      entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions. And, 
therefore
,
      it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open
      the windows.
    

      “My own examination was somewhat more particular, and was so for the
      reason I have just given—because here it was, I knew, that all
      apparent impossibilities 
must
 be proved to be not such in reality.
    

      “I proceeded to think thus—
a posteriori
. The murderers
      did escape from one of these windows. This being so, they could not have
      refastened the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened;—the
      consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny
      of the police in this quarter. Yet the sashes 
were
 fastened. They
      
must
, then, have the power of fastening themselves. There was no
      escape from this conclusion. I stepped to the unobstructed casement,
      withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash. It
      resisted all my efforts, as I had anticipated. A concealed spring must, I
      now know, exist; and this corroboration of my idea convinced me that my
      premises at least, were correct, however mysterious still appeared the
      circumstances attending the nails. A careful search soon brought to light
      the hidden spring. I pressed it, and, satisfied with the discovery,
      forbore to upraise the sash.
    

      “I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively. A person passing out
      through this window might have reclosed it, and the spring would have
      caught—but the nail could not have been replaced. The conclusion was
      plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations. The assassins
      
must
 have escaped through the other window. Supposing, then, the
      springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there 
must

      be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes of
      their fixture. Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, I looked over the
      head-board minutely at the second casement. Passing my hand down behind
      the board, I readily discovered and pressed the spring, which was, as I
      had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor. I now looked at
      the nail. It was as stout as the other, and apparently fitted in the same
      manner—driven in nearly up to the head.
    

      “You will say that I was puzzled; but, if you think so, you must have
      misunderstood the nature of the inductions. To use a sporting phrase, I
      had not been once ‘at fault.’ The scent had never for an instant been
      lost. There was no flaw in any link of the chain. I had traced the secret
      to its ultimate result,—and that result was 
the nail.
 It had,
      I say, in every respect, the appearance of its fellow in the other window;
      but this fact was an absolute nullity (conclusive as it might seem to be)
      when compared with the consideration that here, at this point, terminated
      the clew. ‘There 
must
 be something wrong,’ I said, ‘about the
      nail.’ I touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an inch of the
      shank, came off in my fingers. The rest of the shank was in the
      gimlet-hole where it had been broken off. The fracture was an old one (for
      its edges were incrusted with rust), and had apparently been accomplished
      by the blow of a hammer, which had partially imbedded, in the top of the
      bottom sash, the head portion of the nail. I now carefully replaced this
      head portion in the indentation whence I had taken it, and the resemblance
      to a perfect nail was complete—the fissure was invisible. Pressing
      the spring, I gently raised the sash for a few inches; the head went up
      with it, remaining firm in its bed. I closed the window, and the semblance
      of the whole nail was again perfect.
    

      “The riddle, so far, was now unriddled. The assassin had escaped through
      the window which looked upon the bed. Dropping of its own accord upon his
      exit (or perhaps purposely closed), it had become fastened by the spring;
      and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the
      police for that of the nail,—farther inquiry being thus considered
      unnecessary.