      At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.
    

      “Be ready,” said Dupin, “with your pistols, but neither use them nor show
      them until at a signal from myself.”
     

      The front door of the house had been left open, and the visitor had
      entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase.
      Now, however, he seemed to hesitate. Presently we heard him descending.
      Dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up.
      He did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and
      rapped at the door of our chamber.
    

      “Come in,” said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone.
    

      A man entered. He was a sailor, evidently,—a tall, stout, and
      muscular-looking person, with a certain dare-devil expression of
      countenance, not altogether unprepossessing. His face, greatly sunburnt,
      was more than half hidden by whisker and 
mustachio.
 He had with him
      a huge oaken cudgel, but appeared to be otherwise unarmed. He bowed
      awkwardly, and bade us “good evening,” in French accents, which, although
      somewhat Neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a Parisian
      origin.
    

      “Sit down, my friend,” said Dupin. “I suppose you have called about the
      Ourang-Outang. Upon my word, I almost envy you the possession of him; a
      remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal. How old do you
      suppose him to be?”
     

      The sailor drew a long breath, with the air of a man relieved of some
      intolerable burden, and then replied, in an assured tone:
    

      “I have no way of telling—but he can’t be more than four or five
      years old. Have you got him here?”
     

      “Oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here. He is at a livery
      stable in the Rue Dubourg, just by. You can get him in the morning. Of
      course you are prepared to identify the property?”
     

      “To be sure I am, sir.”
     

      “I shall be sorry to part with him,” said Dupin.
    

      “I don’t mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir,”
       said the man. “Couldn’t expect it. Am very willing to pay a reward for the
      finding of the animal—that is to say, any thing in reason.”
     

      “Well,” replied my friend, “that is all very fair, to be sure. Let me
      think!—what should I have? Oh! I will tell you. My reward shall be
      this. You shall give me all the information in your power about these
      murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly. Just as
      quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in his
      pocket. He then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it, without the
      least flurry, upon the table.
    

      The sailor’s face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation. He
      started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he fell
      back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance of death
      itself. He spoke not a word. I pitied him from the bottom of my heart.
    

      “My friend,” said Dupin, in a kind tone, “you are alarming yourself
      unnecessarily—you are indeed. We mean you no harm whatever. I pledge
      you the honor of a gentleman, and of a Frenchman, that we intend you no
      injury. I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities in
      the Rue Morgue. It will not do, however, to deny that you are in some
      measure implicated in them. From what I have already said, you must know
      that I have had means of information about this matter—means of
      which you could never have dreamed. Now the thing stands thus. You have
      done nothing which you could have avoided—nothing, certainly, which
      renders you culpable. You were not even guilty of robbery, when you might
      have robbed with impunity. You have nothing to conceal. You have no reason
      for concealment. On the other hand, you are bound by every principle of
      honor to confess all you know. An innocent man is now imprisoned, charged
      with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator.”
     

      The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while
      Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all
      gone.
    

      “So help me God!” said he, after a brief pause, “I 
will
 tell you all I
      know about this affair;—but I do not expect you to believe one half
      I say—I would be a fool indeed if I did. Still, I 
am
 innocent, and I
      will make a clean breast if I die for it.”
     

      What he stated was, in substance, this. He had lately made a voyage to the
      Indian Archipelago. A party, of which he formed one, landed at Borneo, and
      passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure. Himself and a
      companion had captured the Ourang-Outang. This companion dying, the animal
      fell into his own exclusive possession. After great trouble, occasioned by
      the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage, he at
      length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in Paris,
      where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his
      neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such time as it should
      recover from a wound in the foot, received from a splinter on board ship.
      His ultimate design was to sell it.
    

      Returning home from some sailors’ frolic the night, or rather in the
      morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed-room, into
      which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as was
      thought, securely confined. Razor in hand, and fully lathered, it was
      sitting before a looking-glass, attempting the operation of shaving, in
      which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key-hole
      of the closet. Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the
      possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use it, the man,
      for some moments, was at a loss what to do. He had been accustomed,
      however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of
      a whip, and to this he now resorted. Upon sight of it, the Ourang-Outang
      sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and
      thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street.
    