      At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.
    

      “Be ready,” said Dupin, “with your pistols, but neither use them nor show
      them until at a signal from myself.”
     

      The front door of the house had been left open, and the visitor had
      entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase.
      Now, however, he seemed to hesitate. Presently we heard him descending.
      Dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up.
      He did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and
      rapped at the door of our chamber.
    

      “Come in,” said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone.
    

      A man entered. He was a sailor, evidently,—a tall, stout, and
      muscular-looking person, with a certain dare-devil expression of
      countenance, not altogether unprepossessing. His face, greatly sunburnt,
      was more than half hidden by whisker and 
mustachio.
 He had with him
      a huge oaken cudgel, but appeared to be otherwise unarmed. He bowed
      awkwardly, and bade us “good evening,” in French accents, which, although
      somewhat Neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a Parisian
      origin.
    

      “Sit down, my friend,” said Dupin. “I suppose you have called about the
      Ourang-Outang. Upon my word, I almost envy you the possession of him; a
      remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal. How old do you
      suppose him to be?”
     

      The sailor drew a long breath, with the air of a man relieved of some
      intolerable burden, and then replied, in an assured tone:
    

      “I have no way of telling—but he can’t be more than four or five
      years old. Have you got him here?”
     

      “Oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here. He is at a livery
      stable in the Rue Dubourg, just by. You can get him in the morning. Of
      course you are prepared to identify the property?”
     

      “To be sure I am, sir.”
     

      “I shall be sorry to part with him,” said Dupin.
    

      “I don’t mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir,”
       said the man. “Couldn’t expect it. Am very willing to pay a reward for the
      finding of the animal—that is to say, any thing in reason.”
     

      “Well,” replied my friend, “that is all very fair, to be sure. Let me
      think!—what should I have? Oh! I will tell you. My reward shall be
      this. You shall give me all the information in your power about these
      murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly. Just as
      quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in his
      pocket. He then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it, without the
      least flurry, upon the table.
    

      The sailor’s face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation. He
      started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he fell
      back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance of death
      itself. He spoke not a word. I pitied him from the bottom of my heart.
    

      “My friend,” said Dupin, in a kind tone, “you are alarming yourself
      unnecessarily—you are indeed. We mean you no harm whatever. I pledge
      you the honor of a gentleman, and of a Frenchman, that we intend you no
      injury. I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities in
      the Rue Morgue. It will not do, however, to deny that you are in some
      measure implicated in them. From what I have already said, you must know
      that I have had means of information about this matter—means of
      which you could never have dreamed. Now the thing stands thus. You have
      done nothing which you could have avoided—nothing, certainly, which
      renders you culpable. You were not even guilty of robbery, when you might
      have robbed with impunity. You have nothing to conceal. You have no reason
      for concealment. On the other hand, you are bound by every principle of
      honor to confess all you know. An innocent man is now imprisoned, charged
      with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator.”
     

      The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while
      Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all
      gone.
    

      “So help me God!” said he, after a brief pause, “I 
will
 tell you all I
      know about this affair;—but I do not expect you to believe one half
      I say—I would be a fool indeed if I did. Still, I 
am
 innocent, and I
      will make a clean breast if I die for it.”
     

      What he stated was, in substance, this. He had lately made a voyage to the
      Indian Archipelago. A party, of which he formed one, landed at Borneo, and
      passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure. Himself and a
      companion had captured the Ourang-Outang. This companion dying, the animal
      fell into his own exclusive possession. After great trouble, occasioned by
      the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage, he at
      length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in Paris,
      where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his
      neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such time as it should
      recover from a wound in the foot, received from a splinter on board ship.
      His ultimate design was to sell it.
    

      Returning home from some sailors’ frolic the night, or rather in the
      morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed-room, into
      which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as was
      thought, securely confined. Razor in hand, and fully lathered, it was
      sitting before a looking-glass, attempting the operation of shaving, in
      which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key-hole
      of the closet. Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the
      possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use it, the man,
      for some moments, was at a loss what to do. He had been accustomed,
      however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of
      a whip, and to this he now resorted. Upon sight of it, the Ourang-Outang
      sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and
      thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street.
    

      The Frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand,
      occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until
      the latter had nearly come up with it. It then again made off. In this
      manner the chase continued for a long time. The streets were profoundly
      quiet, as it was nearly three o’clock in the morning. In passing down an
      alley in the rear of the Rue Morgue, the fugitive’s attention was arrested
      by a light gleaming from the open window of Madame L’Espanaye’s chamber,
      in the fourth story of her house. Rushing to the building, it perceived
      the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility, grasped the
      shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and, by its means,
      swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed. The whole feat did
      not occupy a minute. The shutter was kicked open again by the
      Ourang-Outang as it entered the room.
    

      The sailor, in the meantime, was both rejoiced and perplexed. He had
      strong hopes of now recapturing the brute, as it could scarcely escape
      from the trap into which it had ventured, except by the rod, where it
      might be intercepted as it came down. On the other hand, there was much
      cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house. This latter
      reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive. A lightning rod is
      ascended without difficulty, especially by a sailor; but, when he had
      arrived as high as the window, which lay far to his left, his career was
      stopped; the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to
      obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room. At this glimpse he nearly
      fell from his hold through excess of horror. Now it was that those hideous
      shrieks arose upon the night, which had startled from slumber the inmates
      of the Rue Morgue. Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter, habited in their
      night clothes, had apparently been occupied in arranging some papers in
      the iron chest already mentioned, which had been wheeled into the middle
      of the room. It was open, and its contents lay beside it on the floor. The
      victims must have been sitting with their backs toward the window; and,
      from the time elapsing between the ingress of the beast and the screams,
      it seems probable that it was not immediately perceived. The flapping-to
      of the shutter would naturally have been attributed to the wind.
    

      As the sailor looked in, the gigantic animal had seized Madame L’Espanaye
      by the hair, (which was loose, as she had been combing it,) and was
      flourishing the razor about her face, in imitation of the motions of a
      barber. The daughter lay prostrate and motionless; she had swooned. The
      screams and struggles of the old lady (during which the hair was torn from
      her head) had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the
      Ourang-Outang into those of wrath. With one determined sweep of its
      muscular arm it nearly severed her head from her body. The sight of blood
      inflamed its anger into phrenzy. Gnashing its teeth, and flashing fire
      from its eyes, it flew upon the body of the girl, and imbedded its fearful
      talons in her throat, retaining its grasp until she expired. Its wandering
      and wild glances fell at this moment upon the head of the bed, over which
      the face of its master, rigid with horror, was just discernible. The fury
      of the beast, who no doubt bore still in mind the dreaded whip, was
      instantly converted into fear. Conscious of having deserved punishment, it
      seemed desirous of concealing its bloody deeds, and skipped about the
      chamber in an agony of nervous agitation; throwing down and breaking the
      furniture as it moved, and dragging the bed from the bedstead. In
      conclusion, it seized first the corpse of the daughter, and thrust it up
      the chimney, as it was found; then that of the old lady, which it
      immediately hurled through the window headlong.
    

      As the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden, the sailor
      shrank aghast to the rod, and, rather gliding than clambering down it,
      hurried at once home—dreading the consequences of the butchery, and
      gladly abandoning, in his terror, all solicitude about the fate of the
      Ourang-Outang. The words heard by the party upon the staircase were the
      Frenchman’s exclamations of horror and affright, commingled with the
      fiendish jabberings of the brute.
    

      I have scarcely anything to add. The Ourang-Outang must have escaped from
      the chamber, by the rod, just before the breaking of the door. It must have
      closed the window as it passed through it. It was subsequently caught by
      the owner himself, who obtained for it a very large sum at the 
Jardin
      des Plantes.
 Le Don was instantly released, upon our narration of the
      circumstances (with some comments from Dupin) at the bureau of the Prefect
      of Police. This functionary, however well disposed to my friend, could not
      altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which affairs had taken, and
      was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two, about the propriety of every
      person minding his own business.
    

      “Let him talk,” said Dupin, who had not thought it necessary to reply.
      “Let him discourse; it will ease his conscience, I am satisfied with
      having defeated him in his own castle. Nevertheless, that he failed in the
      solution of this mystery, is by no means that matter for wonder which he
      supposes it; for, in truth, our friend the Prefect is somewhat too cunning
      to be profound. In his wisdom is no 
stamen.
 It is all head and no
      body, like the pictures of the Goddess Laverna,—or, at best, all
      head and shoulders, like a codfish. But he is a good creature after all. I
      like him especially for one master stroke of cant, by which he has
      attained his reputation for ingenuity. I mean the way he has ‘
de nier
      ce qui est, et d’expliquer ce qui n’est pas.
’” (*)
    

      (*) Rousseau—Nouvelle Heloïse.