      It was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that Madame Deluc, as well
      as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the
      inn. The screams were violent but brief. Madame D. recognized not only the
      scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was discovered
      upon the corpse. An omnibus driver, Valence, (*13) now also testified that
      he saw Marie Rogêt cross a ferry on the Seine, on the Sunday in
      question, in company with a young man of dark complexion. He, Valence,
      knew Marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity. The articles found
      in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of Marie.
    

      The items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from the
      newspapers, at the suggestion of Dupin, embraced only one more point—but
      this was a point of seemingly vast consequence. It appears that,
      immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described, the
      lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of St. Eustache, Marie’s betrothed, was
      found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene of the outrage. A
      phial labelled “laudanum,” and emptied, was found near him. His breath
      gave evidence of the poison. He died without speaking. Upon his person was
      found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie, with his design of
      self-destruction.
    

      “I need scarcely tell you,” said Dupin, as he finished the perusal of my
      notes, “that this is a far more intricate case than that of the Rue
      Morgue; from which it differs in one important respect. This is an
      ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime. There is nothing
      peculiarly outré about it. You will observe that, for this reason,
      the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should
      have been considered difficult, of solution. Thus; at first, it was
      thought unnecessary to offer a reward. The myrmidons of G——
      were able at once to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have
      been committed. They could picture to their imaginations a mode—many
      modes—and a motive—many motives; and because it was not
      impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been
      the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must. But
      the case with which these variable fancies were entertained, and the very
      plausibility which each assumed, should have been understood as indicative
      rather of the difficulties than of the facilities which must attend
      elucidation. I have before observed that it is by prominences above the
      plane of the ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search
      for the true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not
      so much ‘what has occurred?’ as ‘what has occurred that has never occurred
      before?’ In the investigations at the house of Madame L’Espanaye, (*14)
      the agents of G—— were discouraged and confounded by that very
      unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have afforded
      the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might have been
      plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met the eye in
      the case of the perfumery-girl, and yet told of nothing but easy triumph
      to the functionaries of the Prefecture.
    