      The editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the
      water “not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days,”
       because it was so far decomposed that Beauvais had great difficulty in
      recognizing it. This latter point, however, was fully disproved. I
      continue the translation:
    

      “What, then, are the facts on which M. Beauvais says that he has no doubt
      the body was that of Marie Rogêt? He ripped up the gown sleeve, and
      says he found marks which satisfied him of the identity. The public
      generally supposed those marks to have consisted of some description of
      scars. He rubbed the arm and found hair upon it—something as
      indefinite, we think, as can readily be imagined—as little
      conclusive as finding an arm in the sleeve. M. Beauvais did not return
      that night, but sent word to Madame Rogêt, at seven o’clock, on
      Wednesday evening, that an investigation was still in progress respecting
      her daughter. If we allow that Madame Rogêt, from her age and
      grief, could not go over, (which is allowing a great deal,) there
      certainly must have been some one who would have thought it worth while to
      go over and attend the investigation, if they thought the body was that of
      Marie. Nobody went over. There was nothing said or heard about the matter
      in the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, that reached even the occupants
      of the same building. M. St. Eustache, the lover and intended husband of
      Marie, who boarded in her mother’s house, deposes that he did not hear of
      the discovery of the body of his intended until the next morning, when M.
      Beauvais came into his chamber and told him of it. For an item of news
      like this, it strikes us it was very coolly received.”
     

      In this way the journal endeavored to create the impression of an apathy
      on the part of the relatives of Marie, inconsistent with the supposition
      that these relatives believed the corpse to be hers. Its insinuations
      amount to this: that Marie, with the connivance of her friends, had
      absented herself from the city for reasons involving a charge against her
      chastity; and that these friends, upon the discovery of a corpse in the
      Seine, somewhat resembling that of the girl, had availed themselves of the
      opportunity to impress the public with the belief of her death. But
      L’Etoile was again over-hasty. It was distinctly proved that no apathy,
      such as was imagined, existed; that the old lady was exceedingly feeble,
      and so agitated as to be unable to attend to any duty; that St. Eustache,
      so far from receiving the news coolly, was distracted with grief, and bore
      himself so frantically, that M. Beauvais prevailed upon a friend and
      relative to take charge of him, and prevent his attending the examination
      at the disinterment. Moreover, although it was stated by L’Etoile, that
      the corpse was re-interred at the public expense—that an
      advantageous offer of private sculpture was absolutely declined by the
      family—and that no member of the family attended the ceremonial;—although,
      I say, all this was asserted by L’Etoile in furtherance of the impression
      it designed to convey—yet all this was satisfactorily disproved. In
      a subsequent number of the paper, an attempt was made to throw suspicion
      upon Beauvais himself. The editor says:
    

      “Now, then, a change comes over the matter. We are told that on one
      occasion, while a Madame B—— was at Madame Rogêt’s
      house, M. Beauvais, who was going out, told her that a gendarme was
      expected there, and she, Madame B., must not say anything to the gendarme
      until he returned, but let the matter be for him.... In the present
      posture of affairs, M. Beauvais appears to have the whole matter locked up
      in his head. A single step cannot be taken without M. Beauvais, for, go
      which way you will, you run against him.... For some reason, he determined
      that nobody shall have any thing to do with the proceedings but himself,
      and he has elbowed the male relatives out of the way, according to their
      representations, in a very singular manner. He seems to have been very
      much averse to permitting the relatives to see the body.”