THE MYSTERY OF MARIE ROGET.(*1)

      A SEQUEL TO “THE MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE.”
     

  Es giebt eine Reihe idealischer Begebenheiten, die der Wirklichkeit
  parallel lauft. Selten fallen sie zusammen. Menschen und zufalle
  modificiren gewohulich die idealische Begebenheit, so dass sie
  unvollkommen erscheint, und ihre Folgen gleichfalls unvollkommen
  sind. So bei der Reformation; statt des Protestantismus kam das
  Lutherthum hervor.

      There are ideal series of events which run parallel with the real
  ones. They rarely coincide. Men and circumstances generally modify
  the ideal train of events, so that it seems imperfect, and its
  consequences are equally imperfect. Thus with the Reformation;
  instead of Protestantism came Lutheranism.—
Novalis
.(*2) 
Moral Ansichten
.

      There are few persons, even among the calmest thinkers, who have not
      occasionally been startled into a vague yet thrilling half-credence in the
      supernatural, by coincidences of so seemingly marvellous a character that,
      as mere coincidences, the intellect has been unable to receive them. Such
      sentiments—for the half-credences of which I speak have never the
      full force of thought—such sentiments are seldom thoroughly stifled
      unless by reference to the doctrine of chance, or, as it is technically
      termed, the Calculus of Probabilities. Now this Calculus is, in its
      essence, purely mathematical; and thus we have the anomaly of the most
      rigidly exact in science applied to the shadow and spirituality of the
      most intangible in speculation.
    

      The extraordinary details which I am now called upon to make public, will
      be found to form, as regards sequence of time, the primary branch of a
      series of scarcely intelligible coincidences, whose secondary or
      concluding branch will be recognized by all readers in the late murder of
      Mary Cecila Rogers, at New York.
    

      When, in an article entitled “The Murders in the Rue Morgue,” I
      endeavored, about a year ago, to depict some very remarkable features in
      the mental character of my friend, the Chevalier C. Auguste Dupin, it did
      not occur to me that I should ever resume the subject. This depicting of
      character constituted my design; and this design was thoroughly fulfilled
      in the wild train of circumstances brought to instance Dupin’s
      idiosyncrasy. I might have adduced other examples, but I should have
      proven no more. Late events, however, in their surprising development,
      have startled me into some farther details, which will carry with them the
      air of extorted confession. Hearing what I have lately heard, it would be
      indeed strange should I remain silent in regard to what I both heard and
      saw so long ago.
    

      Upon the winding up of the tragedy involved in the deaths of Madame
      L’Espanaye and her daughter, the Chevalier dismissed the affair at once
      from his attention, and relapsed into his old habits of moody reverie.
      Prone, at all times, to abstraction, I readily fell in with his humor;
      and, continuing to occupy our chambers in the Faubourg Saint Germain, we
      gave the Future to the winds, and slumbered tranquilly in the Present,
      weaving the dull world around us into dreams.
    

      But these dreams were not altogether uninterrupted. It may readily be
      supposed that the part played by my friend, in the drama at the Rue
      Morgue, had not failed of its impression upon the fancies of the Parisian
      police. With its emissaries, the name of Dupin had grown into a household
      word. The simple character of those inductions by which he had
      disentangled the mystery never having been explained even to the Prefect,
      or to any other individual than myself, of course it is not surprising
      that the affair was regarded as little less than miraculous, or that the
      Chevalier’s analytical abilities acquired for him the credit of intuition.
      His frankness would have led him to disabuse every inquirer of such
      prejudice; but his indolent humor forbade all farther agitation of a topic
      whose interest to himself had long ceased. It thus happened that he found
      himself the cynosure of the political eyes; and the cases were not few in
      which attempt was made to engage his services at the Prefecture. One of
      the most remarkable instances was that of the murder of a young girl named
      Marie Rogêt.
    

      This event occurred about two years after the atrocity in the Rue Morgue.
      Marie, whose Christian and family name will at once arrest attention from
      their resemblance to those of the unfortunate “cigar girl,” was the only
      daughter of the widow Estelle Rogêt. The father had died during the
      child’s infancy, and from the period of his death, until within eighteen
      months before the assassination which forms the subject of our narrative,
      the mother and daughter had dwelt together in the Rue Pavée Saint
      Andrée; (*3) Madame there keeping a pension, assisted by Marie.
      Affairs went on thus until the latter had attained her twenty-second year,
      when her great beauty attracted the notice of a perfumer, who occupied one
      of the shops in the basement of the Palais Royal, and whose custom lay
      chiefly among the desperate adventurers infesting that neighborhood.
      Monsieur Le Blanc (*4) was not unaware of the advantages to be derived
      from the attendance of the fair Marie in his perfumery; and his liberal
      proposals were accepted eagerly by the girl, although with somewhat more
      of hesitation by Madame.
    

      The anticipations of the shopkeeper were realized, and his rooms soon
      became notorious through the charms of the sprightly grisette. She had
      been in his employ about a year, when her admirers were thrown info
      confusion by her sudden disappearance from the shop. Monsieur Le Blanc was
      unable to account for her absence, and Madame Rogêt was distracted
      with anxiety and terror. The public papers immediately took up the theme,
      and the police were upon the point of making serious investigations, when,
      one fine morning, after the lapse of a week, Marie, in good health, but
      with a somewhat saddened air, made her re-appearance at her usual counter
      in the perfumery. All inquiry, except that of a private character, was of
      course immediately hushed. Monsieur Le Blanc professed total ignorance, as
      before. Marie, with Madame, replied to all questions, that the last week
      had been spent at the house of a relation in the country. Thus the affair
      died away, and was generally forgotten; for the girl, ostensibly to
      relieve herself from the impertinence of curiosity, soon bade a final
      adieu to the perfumer, and sought the shelter of her mother’s residence in
      the Rue Pavée Saint Andrée.
    

      It was about five months after this return home, that her friends were
      alarmed by her sudden disappearance for the second time. Three days
      elapsed, and nothing was heard of her. On the fourth her corpse was found
      floating in the Seine, * near the shore which is opposite the Quartier of
      the Rue Saint Andrée, and at a point not very far distant from the
      secluded neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule. (*6)
    

      The atrocity of this murder, (for it was at once evident that murder had
      been committed,) the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her
      previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds
      of the sensitive Parisians. I can call to mind no similar occurrence
      producing so general and so intense an effect. For several weeks, in the
      discussion of this one absorbing theme, even the momentous political
      topics of the day were forgotten. The Prefect made unusual exertions; and
      the powers of the whole Parisian police were, of course, tasked to the
      utmost extent.
    

      Upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the
      murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period, the
      inquisition which was immediately set on foot. It was not until the
      expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and
      even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs. In the mean time
      the investigation proceeded with vigor, if not always with judgment, and
      numerous individuals were examined to no purpose; while, owing to the
      continual absence of all clue to the mystery, the popular excitement
      greatly increased. At the end of the tenth day it was thought advisable to
      double the sum originally proposed; and, at length, the second week having
      elapsed without leading to any discoveries, and the prejudice which always
      exists in Paris against the Police having given vent to itself in several
      serious émeutes, the Prefect took it upon himself to offer the sum
      of twenty thousand francs “for the conviction of the assassin,” or, if
      more than one should prove to have been implicated, “for the conviction of
      any one of the assassins.” In the proclamation setting forth this reward,
      a full pardon was promised to any accomplice who should come forward in
      evidence against his fellow; and to the whole was appended, wherever it
      appeared, the private placard of a committee of citizens, offering ten
      thousand francs, in addition to the amount proposed by the Prefecture. The
      entire reward thus stood at no less than thirty thousand francs, which
      will be regarded as an extraordinary sum when we consider the humble
      condition of the girl, and the great frequency, in large cities, of such
      atrocities as the one described.
    

      No one doubted now that the mystery of this murder would be immediately
      brought to light. But although, in one or two instances, arrests were made
      which promised elucidation, yet nothing was elicited which could implicate
      the parties suspected; and they were discharged forthwith. Strange as it
      may appear, the third week from the discovery of the body had passed, and
      passed without any light being thrown upon the subject, before even a
      rumor of the events which had so agitated the public mind, reached the
      ears of Dupin and myself. Engaged in researches which absorbed our whole
      attention, it had been nearly a month since either of us had gone abroad,
      or received a visitor, or more than glanced at the leading political
      articles in one of the daily papers. The first intelligence of the murder
      was brought us by G——, in person. He called upon us early in
      the afternoon of the thirteenth of July, 18—, and remained with us
      until late in the night. He had been piqued by the failure of all his
      endeavors to ferret out the assassins. His reputation—so he said
      with a peculiarly Parisian air—was at stake. Even his honor was
      concerned. The eyes of the public were upon him; and there was really no
      sacrifice which he would not be willing to make for the development of the
      mystery. He concluded a somewhat droll speech with a compliment upon what
      he was pleased to term the tact of Dupin, and made him a direct, and
      certainly a liberal proposition, the precise nature of which I do not feel
      myself at liberty to disclose, but which has no bearing upon the proper
      subject of my narrative.
    

      The compliment my friend rebutted as best he could, but the proposition he
      accepted at once, although its advantages were altogether provisional.
      This point being settled, the Prefect broke forth at once into
      explanations of his own views, interspersing them with long comments upon
      the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in possession. He discoursed
      much, and beyond doubt, learnedly; while I hazarded an occasional
      suggestion as the night wore drowsily away. Dupin, sitting steadily in his
      accustomed arm-chair, was the embodiment of respectful attention. He wore
      spectacles, during the whole interview; and an occasional signal glance
      beneath their green glasses, sufficed to convince me that he slept not the
      less soundly, because silently, throughout the seven or eight
      leaden-footed hours which immediately preceded the departure of the
      Prefect.
    

      In the morning, I procured, at the Prefecture, a full report of all the
      evidence elicited, and, at the various newspaper offices, a copy of every
      paper in which, from first to last, had been published any decisive
      information in regard to this sad affair. Freed from all that was
      positively disproved, this mass of information stood thus:
    

      Marie Rogêt left the residence of her mother, in the Rue Pavée
      St. Andrée, about nine o’clock in the morning of Sunday, June the
      twenty-second, 18—. In going out, she gave notice to a Monsieur
      Jacques St. Eustache, (*7) and to him only, of her intention to
      spend the day with an aunt who resided in the Rue des Drômes. The
      Rue des Drômes is a short and narrow but populous thoroughfare, not
      far from the banks of the river, and at a distance of some two miles, in
      the most direct course possible, from the pension of Madame Rogêt.
      St. Eustache was the accepted suitor of Marie, and lodged, as well as took
      his meals, at the pension. He was to have gone for his betrothed at dusk,
      and to have escorted her home. In the afternoon, however, it came on to
      rain heavily; and, supposing that she would remain all night at her
      aunt’s, (as she had done under similar circumstances before,) he did not
      think it necessary to keep his promise. As night drew on, Madame Rogêt
      (who was an infirm old lady, seventy years of age,) was heard to express a
      fear “that she should never see Marie again;” but this observation
      attracted little attention at the time.
    

      On Monday, it was ascertained that the girl had not been to the Rue des Drômes;
      and when the day elapsed without tidings of her, a tardy search was
      instituted at several points in the city, and its environs. It was not,
      however until the fourth day from the period of disappearance that any
      thing satisfactory was ascertained respecting her. On this day,
      (Wednesday, the twenty-fifth of June,) a Monsieur Beauvais, (*8) who, with
      a friend, had been making inquiries for Marie near the Barrière du
      Roule, on the shore of the Seine which is opposite the Rue Pavée
      St. Andrée, was informed that a corpse had just been towed ashore
      by some fishermen, who had found it floating in the river. Upon seeing the
      body, Beauvais, after some hesitation, identified it as that of the
      perfumery-girl. His friend recognized it more promptly.
    

      The face was suffused with dark blood, some of which issued from the
      mouth. No foam was seen, as in the case of the merely drowned. There was
      no discoloration in the cellular tissue. About the throat were bruises and
      impressions of fingers. The arms were bent over on the chest and were
      rigid. The right hand was clenched; the left partially open. On the left
      wrist were two circular excoriations, apparently the effect of ropes, or
      of a rope in more than one volution. A part of the right wrist, also, was
      much chafed, as well as the back throughout its extent, but more
      especially at the shoulder-blades. In bringing the body to the shore the
      fishermen had attached to it a rope; but none of the excoriations had been
      effected by this. The flesh of the neck was much swollen. There were no
      cuts apparent, or bruises which appeared the effect of blows. A piece of
      lace was found tied so tightly around the neck as to be hidden from sight;
      it was completely buried in the flesh, and was fastened by a knot which lay
      just under the left ear. This alone would have sufficed to produce death.
      The medical testimony spoke confidently of the virtuous character of the
      deceased. She had been subjected, it said, to brutal violence. The corpse
      was in such condition when found, that there could have been no difficulty
      in its recognition by friends.
    

      The dress was much torn and otherwise disordered. In the outer garment, a
      slip, about a foot wide, had been torn upward from the bottom hem to the
      waist, but not torn off. It was wound three times around the waist, and
      secured by a sort of hitch in the back. The dress immediately beneath the
      frock was of fine muslin; and from this a slip eighteen inches wide had
      been torn entirely out—torn very evenly and with great care. It was
      found around her neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a hard knot. Over
      this muslin slip and the slip of lace, the strings of a bonnet were
      attached; the bonnet being appended. The knot by which the strings of the
      bonnet were fastened, was not a lady’s, but a slip or sailor’s knot.
    

      After the recognition of the corpse, it was not, as usual, taken to the
      Morgue, (this formality being superfluous,) but hastily interred not far
      from the spot at which it was brought ashore. Through the exertions of
      Beauvais, the matter was industriously hushed up, as far as possible; and
      several days had elapsed before any public emotion resulted. A weekly
      paper, (*9) however, at length took up the theme; the corpse was
      disinterred, and a re-examination instituted; but nothing was elicited
      beyond what has been already noted. The clothes, however, were now
      submitted to the mother and friends of the deceased, and fully identified
      as those worn by the girl upon leaving home.
    

      Meantime, the excitement increased hourly. Several individuals were
      arrested and discharged. St. Eustache fell especially under suspicion; and
      he failed, at first, to give an intelligible account of his whereabouts
      during the Sunday on which Marie left home. Subsequently, however, he
      submitted to Monsieur G——, affidavits, accounting
      satisfactorily for every hour of the day in question. As time passed and
      no discovery ensued, a thousand contradictory rumors were circulated, and
      journalists busied themselves in suggestions. Among these, the one which
      attracted the most notice, was the idea that Marie Rogêt still
      lived—that the corpse found in the Seine was that of some other
      unfortunate. It will be proper that I submit to the reader some passages
      which embody the suggestion alluded to. These passages are literal
      translations from L’Etoile, (*10) a paper conducted, in general, with much
      ability.
    

      “Mademoiselle Rogêt left her mother’s house on Sunday morning, June
      the twenty-second, 18—, with the ostensible purpose of going to see
      her aunt, or some other connexion, in the Rue des Drômes. From that
      hour, nobody is proved to have seen her. There is no trace or tidings of
      her at all.... There has no person, whatever, come forward, so far, who
      saw her at all, on that day, after she left her mother’s door.... Now,
      though we have no evidence that Marie Rogêt was in the land of the
      living after nine o’clock on Sunday, June the twenty-second, we have proof
      that, up to that hour, she was alive. On Wednesday noon, at twelve, a
      female body was discovered afloat on the shore of the Barrière de
      Roule. This was, even if we presume that Marie Rogêt was thrown
      into the river within three hours after she left her mother’s house, only
      three days from the time she left her home—three days to an hour.
      But it is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on her
      body, could have been consummated soon enough to have enabled her
      murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight. Those who are
      guilty of such horrid crimes choose darkness rather the light.... Thus we
      see that if the body found in the river was that of Marie Rogêt, it
      could only have been in the water two and a half days, or three at the
      outside. All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown
      into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to
      ten days for decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the
      water. Even where a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at
      least five or six days’ immersion, it sinks again, if let alone. Now, we
      ask, what was there in this case to cause a departure from the ordinary
      course of nature?... If the body had been kept in its mangled state on
      shore until Tuesday night, some trace would be found on shore of the
      murderers. It is a doubtful point, also, whether the body would be so soon
      afloat, even were it thrown in after having been dead two days. And,
      furthermore, it is exceedingly improbable that any villains who had
      committed such a murder as is here supposed, would have thrown the body in
      without weight to sink it, when such a precaution could have so easily
      been taken.”
     

      The editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the
      water “not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days,”
       because it was so far decomposed that Beauvais had great difficulty in
      recognizing it. This latter point, however, was fully disproved. I
      continue the translation:
    

      “What, then, are the facts on which M. Beauvais says that he has no doubt
      the body was that of Marie Rogêt? He ripped up the gown sleeve, and
      says he found marks which satisfied him of the identity. The public
      generally supposed those marks to have consisted of some description of
      scars. He rubbed the arm and found hair upon it—something as
      indefinite, we think, as can readily be imagined—as little
      conclusive as finding an arm in the sleeve. M. Beauvais did not return
      that night, but sent word to Madame Rogêt, at seven o’clock, on
      Wednesday evening, that an investigation was still in progress respecting
      her daughter. If we allow that Madame Rogêt, from her age and
      grief, could not go over, (which is allowing a great deal,) there
      certainly must have been some one who would have thought it worth while to
      go over and attend the investigation, if they thought the body was that of
      Marie. Nobody went over. There was nothing said or heard about the matter
      in the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, that reached even the occupants
      of the same building. M. St. Eustache, the lover and intended husband of
      Marie, who boarded in her mother’s house, deposes that he did not hear of
      the discovery of the body of his intended until the next morning, when M.
      Beauvais came into his chamber and told him of it. For an item of news
      like this, it strikes us it was very coolly received.”
     

      In this way the journal endeavored to create the impression of an apathy
      on the part of the relatives of Marie, inconsistent with the supposition
      that these relatives believed the corpse to be hers. Its insinuations
      amount to this: that Marie, with the connivance of her friends, had
      absented herself from the city for reasons involving a charge against her
      chastity; and that these friends, upon the discovery of a corpse in the
      Seine, somewhat resembling that of the girl, had availed themselves of the
      opportunity to impress the public with the belief of her death. But
      L’Etoile was again over-hasty. It was distinctly proved that no apathy,
      such as was imagined, existed; that the old lady was exceedingly feeble,
      and so agitated as to be unable to attend to any duty; that St. Eustache,
      so far from receiving the news coolly, was distracted with grief, and bore
      himself so frantically, that M. Beauvais prevailed upon a friend and
      relative to take charge of him, and prevent his attending the examination
      at the disinterment. Moreover, although it was stated by L’Etoile, that
      the corpse was re-interred at the public expense—that an
      advantageous offer of private sculpture was absolutely declined by the
      family—and that no member of the family attended the ceremonial;—although,
      I say, all this was asserted by L’Etoile in furtherance of the impression
      it designed to convey—yet all this was satisfactorily disproved. In
      a subsequent number of the paper, an attempt was made to throw suspicion
      upon Beauvais himself. The editor says:
    

      “Now, then, a change comes over the matter. We are told that on one
      occasion, while a Madame B—— was at Madame Rogêt’s
      house, M. Beauvais, who was going out, told her that a gendarme was
      expected there, and she, Madame B., must not say anything to the gendarme
      until he returned, but let the matter be for him.... In the present
      posture of affairs, M. Beauvais appears to have the whole matter locked up
      in his head. A single step cannot be taken without M. Beauvais, for, go
      which way you will, you run against him.... For some reason, he determined
      that nobody shall have any thing to do with the proceedings but himself,
      and he has elbowed the male relatives out of the way, according to their
      representations, in a very singular manner. He seems to have been very
      much averse to permitting the relatives to see the body.”