      “Were it my purpose,” continued Dupin, “merely to 
make out a case

      against this passage of L’Etoile’s argument, I might safely leave it where
      it is. It is not, however, with L’Etoile that we have to do, but with the
      truth. The sentence in question has but one meaning, as it stands; and
      this meaning I have fairly stated; but it is material that we go behind
      the mere words, for an idea which these words have obviously intended, and
      failed to convey. It was the design of the journalist to say that, at
      whatever period of the day or night of Sunday this murder was committed,
      it was improbable that the assassins would have ventured to bear the
      corpse to the river before midnight. And herein lies, really, the
      assumption of which I complain. It is assumed that the murder was
      committed at such a position, and under such circumstances, that the
      bearing it to the river became necessary. Now, the assassination might
      have taken place upon the river’s brink, or on the river itself; and,
      thus, the throwing the corpse in the water might have been resorted to, at
      any period of the day or night, as the most obvious and most immediate
      mode of disposal. You will understand that I suggest nothing here as
      probable, or as cöincident with my own opinion. My design, so far,
      has no reference to the facts of the case. I wish merely to caution you
      against the whole tone of L’Etoile’s suggestion, by calling your attention
      to its ex parte character at the outset.
    

      “Having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions;
      having assumed that, if this were the body of Marie, it could have been in
      the water but a very brief time, the journal goes on to say:
    

      ‘All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the
      water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days
      for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the
      water. Even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at
      least five or six days’ immersion, it sinks again if let alone.’
    

      “These assertions have been tacitly received by every paper in Paris, with
      the exception of Le Moniteur. (*15) This latter print endeavors to combat
      that portion of the paragraph which has reference to ‘drowned bodies’
      only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies of
      individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse of
      less time than is insisted upon by L’Etoile. But there is something
      excessively unphilosophical in the attempt on the part of Le Moniteur, to
      rebut the general assertion of L’Etoile, by a citation of particular
      instances militating against that assertion. Had it been possible to
      adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the end
      of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been properly
      regarded only as exceptions to L’Etoile’s rule, until such time as the
      rule itself should be confuted. Admitting the rule, (and this Le Moniteur
      does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions,) the argument of
      L’Etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this argument does not
      pretend to involve more than a question of the probability of the body
      having risen to the surface in less than three days; and this probability
      will be in favor of L’Etoile’s position until the instances so childishly
      adduced shall be sufficient in number to establish an antagonistical rule.
    

      “You will see at once that all argument upon this head should be urged, if
      at all, against the rule itself; and for this end we must examine the
      rationale of the rule. Now the human body, in general, is neither much
      lighter nor much heavier than the water of the Seine; that is to say, the
      specific gravity of the human body, in its natural condition, is about
      equal to the bulk of fresh water which it displaces. The bodies of fat and
      fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally, are lighter than
      those of the lean and large-boned, and of men; and the specific gravity of
      the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the presence of the tide
      from sea. But, leaving this tide out of question, it may be said that very
      few human bodies will sink at all, even in fresh water, of their own
      accord. Almost any one, falling into a river, will be enabled to float, if
      he suffer the specific gravity of the water fairly to be adduced in
      comparison with his own—that is to say, if he suffer his whole
      person to be immersed, with as little exception as possible. The proper
      position for one who cannot swim, is the upright position of the walker on
      land, with the head thrown fully back, and immersed; the mouth and
      nostrils alone remaining above the surface. Thus circumstanced, we shall
      find that we float without difficulty and without exertion. It is evident,
      however, that the gravities of the body, and of the bulk of water
      displaced, are very nicely balanced, and that a trifle will cause either
      to preponderate. An arm, for instance, uplifted from the water, and thus
      deprived of its support, is an additional weight sufficient to immerse the
      whole head, while the accidental aid of the smallest piece of timber will
      enable us to elevate the head so as to look about. Now, in the struggles
      of one unused to swimming, the arms are invariably thrown upwards, while
      an attempt is made to keep the head in its usual perpendicular position.
      The result is the immersion of the mouth and nostrils, and the inception,
      during efforts to breathe while beneath the surface, of water into the
      lungs. Much is also received into the stomach, and the whole body becomes
      heavier by the difference between the weight of the air originally
      distending these cavities, and that of the fluid which now fills them.
      This difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general
      rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones and
      an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter. Such individuals float
      even after drowning.
    

      “The corpse, being supposed at the bottom of the river, will there remain
      until, by some means, its specific gravity again becomes less than that of
      the bulk of water which it displaces. This effect is brought about by
      decomposition, or otherwise. The result of decomposition is the generation
      of gas, distending the cellular tissues and all the cavities, and giving
      the puffed appearance which is so horrible. When this distension has so
      far progressed that the bulk of the corpse is materially increased without
      a corresponding increase of mass or weight, its specific gravity becomes
      less than that of the water displaced, and it forthwith makes its
      appearance at the surface. But decomposition is modified by innumerable
      circumstances—is hastened or retarded by innumerable agencies; for
      example, by the heat or cold of the season, by the mineral impregnation or
      purity of the water, by its depth or shallowness, by its currency or
      stagnation, by the temperament of the body, by its infection or freedom
      from disease before death. Thus it is evident that we can assign no
      period, with any thing like accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise
      through decomposition. Under certain conditions this result would be
      brought about within an hour; under others, it might not take place at
      all. There are chemical infusions by which the animal frame can be
      preserved forever from corruption; the bi-chloride of mercury is one. But,
      apart from decomposition, there may be, and very usually is, a generation
      of gas within the stomach, from the acetous fermentation of vegetable
      matter (or within other cavities from other causes), sufficient to induce a
      distension which will bring the body to the surface. The effect produced
      by the firing of a cannon is that of simple vibration. This may either
      loosen the corpse from the soft mud or ooze in which it is imbedded, thus
      permitting it to rise when other agencies have already prepared it for so
      doing; or it may overcome the tenacity of some putrescent portions of the
      cellular tissue; allowing the cavities to distend under the influence of
      the gas.
    

      “Having thus before us the whole philosophy of this subject, we can easily
      test by it the assertions of L’Etoile. ‘All experience shows,’ says this
      paper, ‘that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately
      after death by violence, require from six to ten days for sufficient
      decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water. Even
      when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or
      six days’ immersion, it sinks again if let alone.’
    

      “The whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence and
      incoherence. All experience does not show that ‘drowned bodies’ require
      from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring
      them to the surface. Both science and experience show that the period of
      their rising is, and necessarily must be, indeterminate. If, moreover, a
      body has risen to the surface through firing of cannon, it will not ‘sink
      again if let alone,’ until decomposition has so far progressed as to
      permit the escape of the generated gas. But I wish to call your attention
      to the distinction which is made between ‘drowned bodies,’ and ‘bodies
      thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.’ Although the
      writer admits the distinction, he yet includes them all in the same
      category. I have shown how it is that the body of a drowning man becomes
      specifically heavier than its bulk of water, and that he would not sink at
      all, except for the struggles by which he elevates his arms above the
      surface, and his gasps for breath while beneath the surface—gasps
      which supply by water the place of the original air in the lungs. But
      these struggles and these gasps would not occur in the body ‘thrown into
      the water immediately after death by violence.’ Thus, in the latter
      instance, the body, as a general rule, would not sink at all—a fact
      of which L’Etoile is evidently ignorant. When decomposition had proceeded
      to a very great extent—when the flesh had in a great measure left
      the bones—then, indeed, but not till then, should we lose sight of
      the corpse.
    

      “And now what are we to make of the argument, that the body found could
      not be that of Marie Rogêt, because, three days only having
      elapsed, this body was found floating? If drowned, being a woman, she
      might never have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in
      twenty-four hours, or less. But no one supposes her to have been drowned;
      and, dying before being thrown into the river, she might have been found
      floating at any period afterwards whatever.