      The atrocity of this murder, (for it was at once evident that murder had
      been committed,) the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her
      previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds
      of the sensitive Parisians. I can call to mind no similar occurrence
      producing so general and so intense an effect. For several weeks, in the
      discussion of this one absorbing theme, even the momentous political
      topics of the day were forgotten. The Prefect made unusual exertions; and
      the powers of the whole Parisian police were, of course, tasked to the
      utmost extent.
    

      Upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the
      murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period, the
      inquisition which was immediately set on foot. It was not until the
      expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and
      even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs. In the mean time
      the investigation proceeded with vigor, if not always with judgment, and
      numerous individuals were examined to no purpose; while, owing to the
      continual absence of all clue to the mystery, the popular excitement
      greatly increased. At the end of the tenth day it was thought advisable to
      double the sum originally proposed; and, at length, the second week having
      elapsed without leading to any discoveries, and the prejudice which always
      exists in Paris against the Police having given vent to itself in several
      serious émeutes, the Prefect took it upon himself to offer the sum
      of twenty thousand francs “for the conviction of the assassin,” or, if
      more than one should prove to have been implicated, “for the conviction of
      any one of the assassins.” In the proclamation setting forth this reward,
      a full pardon was promised to any accomplice who should come forward in
      evidence against his fellow; and to the whole was appended, wherever it
      appeared, the private placard of a committee of citizens, offering ten
      thousand francs, in addition to the amount proposed by the Prefecture. The
      entire reward thus stood at no less than thirty thousand francs, which
      will be regarded as an extraordinary sum when we consider the humble
      condition of the girl, and the great frequency, in large cities, of such
      atrocities as the one described.
    

      No one doubted now that the mystery of this murder would be immediately
      brought to light. But although, in one or two instances, arrests were made
      which promised elucidation, yet nothing was elicited which could implicate
      the parties suspected; and they were discharged forthwith. Strange as it
      may appear, the third week from the discovery of the body had passed, and
      passed without any light being thrown upon the subject, before even a
      rumor of the events which had so agitated the public mind, reached the
      ears of Dupin and myself. Engaged in researches which absorbed our whole
      attention, it had been nearly a month since either of us had gone abroad,
      or received a visitor, or more than glanced at the leading political
      articles in one of the daily papers. The first intelligence of the murder
      was brought us by G——, in person. He called upon us early in
      the afternoon of the thirteenth of July, 18—, and remained with us
      until late in the night. He had been piqued by the failure of all his
      endeavors to ferret out the assassins. His reputation—so he said
      with a peculiarly Parisian air—was at stake. Even his honor was
      concerned. The eyes of the public were upon him; and there was really no
      sacrifice which he would not be willing to make for the development of the
      mystery. He concluded a somewhat droll speech with a compliment upon what
      he was pleased to term the tact of Dupin, and made him a direct, and
      certainly a liberal proposition, the precise nature of which I do not feel
      myself at liberty to disclose, but which has no bearing upon the proper
      subject of my narrative.
    

      The compliment my friend rebutted as best he could, but the proposition he
      accepted at once, although its advantages were altogether provisional.
      This point being settled, the Prefect broke forth at once into
      explanations of his own views, interspersing them with long comments upon
      the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in possession. He discoursed
      much, and beyond doubt, learnedly; while I hazarded an occasional
      suggestion as the night wore drowsily away. Dupin, sitting steadily in his
      accustomed arm-chair, was the embodiment of respectful attention. He wore
      spectacles, during the whole interview; and an occasional signal glance
      beneath their green glasses, sufficed to convince me that he slept not the
      less soundly, because silently, throughout the seven or eight
      leaden-footed hours which immediately preceded the departure of the
      Prefect.
    

      In the morning, I procured, at the Prefecture, a full report of all the
      evidence elicited, and, at the various newspaper offices, a copy of every
      paper in which, from first to last, had been published any decisive
      information in regard to this sad affair. Freed from all that was
      positively disproved, this mass of information stood thus:
    

      Marie Rogêt left the residence of her mother, in the Rue Pavée
      St. Andrée, about nine o’clock in the morning of Sunday, June the
      twenty-second, 18—. In going out, she gave notice to a Monsieur
      Jacques St. Eustache, (*7) and to him only, of her intention to
      spend the day with an aunt who resided in the Rue des Drômes. The
      Rue des Drômes is a short and narrow but populous thoroughfare, not
      far from the banks of the river, and at a distance of some two miles, in
      the most direct course possible, from the pension of Madame Rogêt.
      St. Eustache was the accepted suitor of Marie, and lodged, as well as took
      his meals, at the pension. He was to have gone for his betrothed at dusk,
      and to have escorted her home. In the afternoon, however, it came on to
      rain heavily; and, supposing that she would remain all night at her
      aunt’s, (as she had done under similar circumstances before,) he did not
      think it necessary to keep his promise. As night drew on, Madame Rogêt
      (who was an infirm old lady, seventy years of age,) was heard to express a
      fear “that she should never see Marie again;” but this observation
      attracted little attention at the time.
    