      “But whatever force there may still appear to be in the suggestion of Le
      Commerciel, will be much diminished when we take into consideration the
      hour at which the girl went abroad. ‘It was when the streets were full of
      people,’ says Le Commerciel, ‘that she went out.’ But not so. It was at
      nine o’clock in the morning. Now at nine o’clock of every morning in the
      week, 
with the exception of Sunday
, the streets of the city are, it
      is true, thronged with people. At nine on Sunday, the populace are chiefly
      within doors 
preparing for church
. No observing person can have
      failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from about eight
      until ten on the morning of every Sabbath. Between ten and eleven the
      streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that designated.
    

      “There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation
      on the part of Le Commerciel. ‘A piece,’ it says, ‘of one of the
      unfortunate girl’s petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was torn
      out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to
      prevent screams. This was done, by fellows who had no
      pocket-handkerchiefs.’ Whether this idea is, or is not well founded, we
      will endeavor to see hereafter; but by ‘fellows who have no
      pocket-handkerchiefs’ the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians.
      These, however, are the very description of people who will always be
      found to have handkerchiefs even when destitute of shirts. You must have
      had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to
      the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket-handkerchief.”
     

      “And what are we to think,” I asked, “of the article in Le Soleil?”
     

      “That it is a vast pity its inditer was not born a parrot—in which
      case he would have been the most illustrious parrot of his race. He has
      merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion;
      collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from that.
      ‘The things had all evidently been there,’ he says, ‘at least, three or
      four weeks, and there can be 
no doubt
 that the spot of this
      appalling outrage has been discovered.’ The facts here re-stated by Le
      Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject,
      and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with
      another division of the theme.
    

      “At present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations. You cannot
      fail to have remarked the extreme laxity of the examination of the corpse.
      To be sure, the question of identity was readily determined, or should
      have been; but there were other points to be ascertained. Had the body
      been in any respect despoiled? Had the deceased any articles of jewelry
      about her person upon leaving home? if so, had she any when found? These
      are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence; and there are
      others of equal moment, which have met with no attention. We must endeavor
      to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry. The case of St. Eustache must be
      re-examined. I have no suspicion of this person; but let us proceed
      methodically. We will ascertain beyond a doubt the validity of the
      affidavits in regard to his whereabouts on the Sunday. Affidavits of this
      character are readily made matter of mystification. Should there be
      nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss St. Eustache from our
      investigations. His suicide, however corroborative of suspicion, were
      there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without such deceit, in no
      respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which need cause us to
      deflect from the line of ordinary analysis.
    

      “In that which I now propose, we will discard the interior points of this
      tragedy, and concentrate our attention upon its outskirts. Not the least
      usual error, in investigations such as this, is the limiting of inquiry to
      the immediate, with total disregard of the collateral or circumstantial
      events. It is the mal-practice of the courts to confine evidence and
      discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy. Yet experience has shown,
      and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger
      portion of truth, arises from the seemingly irrelevant. It is through the
      spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern
      science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen. But perhaps you do
      not comprehend me. The history of human knowledge has so uninterruptedly
      shown that to collateral, or incidental, or accidental events we are
      indebted for the most numerous and most valuable discoveries, that it has
      at length become necessary, in any prospective view of improvement, to
      make not only large, but the largest allowances for inventions that shall
      arise by chance, and quite out of the range of ordinary expectation. It is
      no longer philosophical to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is
      to be. Accident is admitted as a portion of the substructure. We make
      chance a matter of absolute calculation. We subject the unlooked for and
      unimagined to the mathematical 
formulae
 of the schools.
    

      “I repeat that it is no more than fact, that the larger portion of all
      truth has sprung from the collateral; and it is but in accordance with the
      spirit of the principle involved in this fact, that I would divert
      inquiry, in the present case, from the trodden and hitherto unfruitful
      ground of the event itself, to the contemporary circumstances which
      surround it. While you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, I will
      examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done. So far,
      we have only reconnoitred the field of investigation; but it will be
      strange indeed if a comprehensive survey, such as I propose, of the public
      prints, will not afford us some minute points which shall establish a
      direction for inquiry.”
     

      In pursuance of Dupin’s suggestion, I made scrupulous examination of the
      affair of the affidavits. The result was a firm conviction of their
      validity, and of the consequent innocence of St. Eustache. In the mean
      time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness
      altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files. At
      the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts:
    

      “About three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the
      present, was caused by the disappearance of this same Marie Rogêt,
      from the parfumerie of Monsieur Le Blanc, in the Palais Royal. At the end
      of a week, however, she re-appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as
      ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual. It was
      given out by Monsieur Le Blanc and her mother, that she had merely been on
      a visit to some friend in the country; and the affair was speedily hushed
      up. We presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and
      that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have
      her among us again.”—Evening Paper—Monday, June 23. (*17)
    

      “An evening journal of yesterday, refers to a former mysterious
      disappearance of Mademoiselle Rogêt. It is well known that, during
      the week of her absence from Le Blanc’s parfumerie, she was in the company
      of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries. A quarrel, it
      is supposed, providentially led to her return home. We have the name of
      the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but, for
      obvious reasons, forbear to make it public.”—Le Mercurie—Tuesday
      Morning, June 24. (*18)
    

      “An outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this city
      the day before yesterday. A gentleman, with his wife and daughter,
      engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing a
      boat to and fro near the banks of the Seine, to convey him across the
      river. Upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped out,
      and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat, when the
      daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol. She returned for
      it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream, gagged, brutally
      treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point not far from that at
      which she had originally entered the boat with her parents. The villains
      have escaped for the time, but the police are upon their trail, and some
      of them will soon be taken.”—Morning Paper—June 25. (*19)
    

      “We have received one or two communications, the object of which is to
      fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon Mennais; (*20) but as this
      gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the
      arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than
      profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public.”—Morning
      Paper—June 28. (*21)
    

      “We have received several forcibly written communications, apparently from
      various sources, and which go far to render it a matter of certainty that
      the unfortunate Marie Rogêt has become a victim of one of the
      numerous bands of blackguards which infest the vicinity of the city upon
      Sunday. Our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this supposition. We
      shall endeavor to make room for some of these arguments hereafter.”—Evening
      Paper—Tuesday, June 31. (*22)
    

      “On Monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw an
      empty boat floating down the Seine. Sails were lying in the bottom of the
      boat. The bargeman towed it under the barge office. The next morning it
      was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers. The
      rudder is now at the barge office.”—Le Diligence—Thursday,
      June 26.
    

      Upon reading these various extracts, they not only seemed to me
      irrelevant, but I could perceive no mode in which any one of them could be
      brought to bear upon the matter in hand. I waited for some explanation
      from Dupin.
    

      “It is not my present design,” he said, “to dwell upon the first and
      second of those extracts. I have copied them chiefly to show you the
      extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as I can understand from the
      Prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an examination
      of the naval officer alluded to. Yet it is mere folly to say that between
      the first and second disappearance of Marie there is no 
supposable

      connection. Let us admit the first elopement to have resulted in a quarrel
      between the lovers, and the return home of the betrayed. We are now
      prepared to view a second elopement (if we know that an elopement has
      again taken place) as indicating a renewal of the betrayer’s advances,
      rather than as the result of new proposals by a second individual—we
      are prepared to regard it as a ‘making up’ of the old amour, rather than
      as the commencement of a new one. The chances are ten to one, that he who
      had once eloped with Marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than
      that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual,
      should have them made to her by another. And here let me call your
      attention to the fact, that the time elapsing between the first
      ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is a few months more than
      the general period of the cruises of our men-of-war. Had the lover been
      interrupted in his first villany by the necessity of departure to sea, and
      had he seized the first moment of his return to renew the base designs not
      yet altogether accomplished—or not yet altogether accomplished by 
him?

      Of all these things we know nothing.