By the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown
      upon Beauvais. A visitor at his office, a few days prior to the girl’s
      disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a rose
      in the key-hole of the door, and the name “Marie” inscribed upon a slate
      which hung near at hand.
    

      The general impression, so far as we were enabled to glean it from the
      newspapers, seemed to be, that Marie had been the victim of a gang of
      desperadoes—that by these she had been borne across the river,
      maltreated and murdered. Le Commerciel, (*11) however, a print of
      extensive influence, was earnest in combating this popular idea. I quote a
      passage or two from its columns:
    

      “We are persuaded that pursuit has hitherto been on a false scent, so far
      as it has been directed to the Barrière du Roule. It is impossible
      that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should
      have passed three blocks without some one having seen her; and any one who
      saw her would have remembered it, for she interested all who knew her. It
      was when the streets were full of people, when she went out.... It is
      impossible that she could have gone to the Barrière du Roule, or to
      the Rue des Drômes, without being recognized by a dozen persons;
      yet no one has come forward who saw her outside of her mother’s door, and
      there is no evidence, except the testimony concerning her expressed
      intentions, that she did go out at all. Her gown was torn, bound round
      her, and tied; and by that the body was carried as a bundle. If the murder
      had been committed at the Barrière du Roule, there would have been
      no necessity for any such arrangement. The fact that the body was found
      floating near the Barrière, is no proof as to where it was thrown
      into the water..... A piece of one of the unfortunate girl’s petticoats,
      two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin
      around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams. This was done by
      fellows who had no pocket-handkerchief.”
     

      A day or two before the Prefect called upon us, however, some important
      information reached the police, which seemed to overthrow, at least, the
      chief portion of Le Commerciel’s argument. Two small boys, sons of a
      Madame Deluc, while roaming among the woods near the Barrière du
      Roule, chanced to penetrate a close thicket, within which were three or
      four large stones, forming a kind of seat, with a back and footstool. On
      the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf. A
      parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief were also here found. The
      handkerchief bore the name “Marie Rogêt.” Fragments of dress were
      discovered on the brambles around. The earth was trampled, the bushes were
      broken, and there was every evidence of a struggle. Between the thicket
      and the river, the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore
      evidence of some heavy burthen having been dragged along it.
    

      A weekly paper, Le Soleil,(*12) had the following comments upon this
      discovery—comments which merely echoed the sentiment of the whole
      Parisian press:
    

      “The things had all evidently been there at least three or four weeks;
      they were all mildewed down hard with the action of the rain and stuck
      together from mildew. The grass had grown around and over some of them.
      The silk on the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run
      together within. The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was
      all mildewed and rotten, and tore on its being opened..... The pieces of
      her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six
      inches long. One part was the hem of the frock, and it had been mended;
      the other piece was part of the skirt, not the hem. They looked like
      strips torn off, and were on the thorn bush, about a foot from the
      ground..... There can be no doubt, therefore, that the spot of this
      appalling outrage has been discovered.”
     

      Consequent upon this discovery, new evidence appeared. Madame Deluc
      testified that she keeps a roadside inn not far from the bank of the
      river, opposite the Barrière du Roule. The neighborhood is secluded—particularly
      so. It is the usual Sunday resort of blackguards from the city, who cross
      the river in boats. About three o’clock, in the afternoon of the Sunday in
      question, a young girl arrived at the inn, accompanied by a young man of
      dark complexion. The two remained here for some time. On their departure,
      they took the road to some thick woods in the vicinity. Madame Deluc’s
      attention was called to the dress worn by the girl, on account of its
      resemblance to one worn by a deceased relative. A scarf was particularly
      noticed. Soon after the departure of the couple, a gang of miscreants made
      their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making
      payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the
      inn about dusk, and re-crossed the river as if in great haste.
    

      It was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that Madame Deluc, as well
      as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the
      inn. The screams were violent but brief. Madame D. recognized not only the
      scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was discovered
      upon the corpse. An omnibus driver, Valence, (*13) now also testified that
      he saw Marie Rogêt cross a ferry on the Seine, on the Sunday in
      question, in company with a young man of dark complexion. He, Valence,
      knew Marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity. The articles found
      in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of Marie.
    

      The items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from the
      newspapers, at the suggestion of Dupin, embraced only one more point—but
      this was a point of seemingly vast consequence. It appears that,
      immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described, the
      lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of St. Eustache, Marie’s betrothed, was
      found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene of the outrage. A
      phial labelled “laudanum,” and emptied, was found near him. His breath
      gave evidence of the poison. He died without speaking. Upon his person was
      found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie, with his design of
      self-destruction.
    

      “I need scarcely tell you,” said Dupin, as he finished the perusal of my
      notes, “that this is a far more intricate case than that of the Rue
      Morgue; from which it differs in one important respect. This is an
      ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime. There is nothing
      peculiarly outré about it. You will observe that, for this reason,
      the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should
      have been considered difficult, of solution. Thus; at first, it was
      thought unnecessary to offer a reward. The myrmidons of G——
      were able at once to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have
      been committed. They could picture to their imaginations a mode—many
      modes—and a motive—many motives; and because it was not
      impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been
      the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must. But
      the case with which these variable fancies were entertained, and the very
      plausibility which each assumed, should have been understood as indicative
      rather of the difficulties than of the facilities which must attend
      elucidation. I have before observed that it is by prominences above the
      plane of the ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search
      for the true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not
      so much ‘what has occurred?’ as ‘what has occurred that has never occurred
      before?’ In the investigations at the house of Madame L’Espanaye, (*14)
      the agents of G—— were discouraged and confounded by that very
      unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have afforded
      the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might have been
      plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met the eye in
      the case of the perfumery-girl, and yet told of nothing but easy triumph
      to the functionaries of the Prefecture.
    