“‘But,’ says L’Etoile, ‘if the body had been kept in its mangled state on
      shore until Tuesday night, some trace would be found on shore of the
      murderers.’ Here it is at first difficult to perceive the intention of the
      reasoner. He means to anticipate what he imagines would be an objection to
      his theory—viz.: that the body was kept on shore two days, suffering
      rapid decomposition—more rapid than if immersed in water. He
      supposes that, had this been the case, it might have appeared at the
      surface on the Wednesday, and thinks that only under such circumstances it
      could so have appeared. He is accordingly in haste to show that it was not
      kept on shore; for, if so, ‘some trace would be found on shore of the
      murderers.’ I presume you smile at the sequitur. You cannot be made to see
      how the mere duration of the corpse on the shore could operate to multiply
      traces of the assassins. Nor can I.
    

      “‘And furthermore it is exceedingly improbable,’ continues our journal,
      ‘that any villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed,
      would have thrown the body in without weight to sink it, when such a
      precaution could have so easily been taken.’ Observe, here, the laughable
      confusion of thought! No one—not even L’Etoile—disputes the
      murder committed 
on the body found
. The marks of violence are too
      obvious. It is our reasoner’s object merely to show that this body is not
      Marie’s. He wishes to prove that Marie is not assassinated—not that
      the corpse was not. Yet his observation proves only the latter point. Here
      is a corpse without weight attached. Murderers, casting it in, would not
      have failed to attach a weight. Therefore it was not thrown in by
      murderers. This is all which is proved, if any thing is. The question of
      identity is not even approached, and L’Etoile has been at great pains
      merely to gainsay now what it has admitted only a moment before. ‘We are
      perfectly convinced,’ it says, ‘that the body found was that of a murdered
      female.’
    

      “Nor is this the sole instance, even in this division of his subject,
      where our reasoner unwittingly reasons against himself. His evident
      object, I have already said, is to reduce, as much as possible, the
      interval between Marie’s disappearance and the finding of the corpse. Yet
      we find him urging the point that no person saw the girl from the moment
      of her leaving her mother’s house. ‘We have no evidence,’ he says, ‘that
      Marie Rogêt was in the land of the living after nine o’clock on
      Sunday, June the twenty-second.’ As his argument is obviously an ex parte
      one, he should, at least, have left this matter out of sight; for had any
      one been known to see Marie, say on Monday, or on Tuesday, the interval in
      question would have been much reduced, and, by his own ratiocination, the
      probability much diminished of the corpse being that of the grisette. It
      is, nevertheless, amusing to observe that L’Etoile insists upon its point
      in the full belief of its furthering its general argument.
    

      “Reperuse now that portion of this argument which has reference to the
      identification of the corpse by Beauvais. In regard to the hair upon the
      arm, L’Etoile has been obviously disingenuous. M. Beauvais, not being an
      idiot, could never have urged, in identification of the corpse, simply
      hair upon its arm. No arm is without hair. The generality of the
      expression of L’Etoile is a mere perversion of the witness’ phraseology.
      He must have spoken of some peculiarity in this hair. It must have been a
      peculiarity of color, of quantity, of length, or of situation.
    

      “‘Her foot,’ says the journal, ‘was small—so are thousands of feet.
      Her garter is no proof whatever—nor is her shoe—for shoes and
      garters are sold in packages. The same may be said of the flowers in her
      hat. One thing upon which M. Beauvais strongly insists is, that the clasp
      on the garter found, had been set back to take it in. This amounts to
      nothing; for most women find it proper to take a pair of garters home and
      fit them to the size of the limbs they are to encircle, rather than to try
      them in the store where they purchase.’ Here it is difficult to suppose
      the reasoner in earnest. Had M. Beauvais, in his search for the body of
      Marie, discovered a corpse corresponding in general size and appearance to
      the missing girl, he would have been warranted (without reference to the
      question of habiliment at all) in forming an opinion that his search had
      been successful. If, in addition to the point of general size and contour,
      he had found upon the arm a peculiar hairy appearance which he had
      observed upon the living Marie, his opinion might have been justly
      strengthened; and the increase of positiveness might well have been in the
      ratio of the peculiarity, or unusualness, of the hairy mark. If, the feet
      of Marie being small, those of the corpse were also small, the increase of
      probability that the body was that of Marie would not be an increase in a
      ratio merely arithmetical, but in one highly geometrical, or accumulative.
      Add to all this shoes such as she had been known to wear upon the day of
      her disappearance, and, although these shoes may be ‘sold in packages,’
      you so far augment the probability as to verge upon the certain. What, of
      itself, would be no evidence of identity, becomes through its
      corroborative position, proof most sure. Give us, then, flowers in the hat
      corresponding to those worn by the missing girl, and we seek for nothing
      farther. If only one flower, we seek for nothing farther—what then
      if two or three, or more? Each successive one is multiple evidence—proof
      not 
added
 to proof, but multiplied by hundreds or thousands. Let us
      now discover, upon the deceased, garters such as the living used, and it
      is almost folly to proceed. But these garters are found to be tightened,
      by the setting back of a clasp, in just such a manner as her own had been
      tightened by Marie, shortly previous to her leaving home. It is now
      madness or hypocrisy to doubt. What L’Etoile says in respect to this
      abbreviation of the garters being an usual occurrence, shows nothing
      beyond its own pertinacity in error. The elastic nature of the
      clasp-garter is self-demonstration of the unusualness of the abbreviation.
      What is made to adjust itself, must of necessity require foreign
      adjustment but rarely. It must have been by an accident, in its strictest
      sense, that these garters of Marie needed the tightening described. They
      alone would have amply established her identity. But it is not that the
      corpse was found to have the garters of the missing girl, or found to have
      her shoes, or her bonnet, or the flowers of her bonnet, or her feet, or a
      peculiar mark upon the arm, or her general size and appearance—it is
      that the corpse had each, and 
all collectively
. Could it be proved
      that the editor of L’Etoile 
really
 entertained a doubt, under the
      circumstances, there would be no need, in his case, of a commission de
      lunatico inquirendo. He has thought it sagacious to echo the small talk of
      the lawyers, who, for the most part, content themselves with echoing the
      rectangular precepts of the courts. I would here observe that very much of
      what is rejected as evidence by a court, is the best of evidence to the
      intellect. For the court, guiding itself by the general principles of
      evidence—the recognized and 
booked
 principles—is averse
      from swerving at particular instances. And this steadfast adherence to
      principle, with rigorous disregard of the conflicting exception, is a sure
      mode of attaining the maximum of attainable truth, in any long sequence of
      time. The practice, in mass, is therefore philosophical; but it is not the
      less certain that it engenders vast individual error. (*16)
    

      “In respect to the insinuations levelled at Beauvais, you will be willing
      to dismiss them in a breath. You have already fathomed the true character
      of this good gentleman. He is a busy-body, with much of romance and little
      of wit. Any one so constituted will readily so conduct himself, upon
      occasion of real excitement, as to render himself liable to suspicion on
      the part of the over acute, or the ill-disposed. M. Beauvais (as it
      appears from your notes) had some personal interviews with the editor of
      L’Etoile, and offended him by venturing an opinion that the corpse,
      notwithstanding the theory of the editor, was, in sober fact, that of
      Marie. ‘He persists,’ says the paper, ‘in asserting the corpse to be that
      of Marie, but cannot give a circumstance, in addition to those which we
      have commented upon, to make others believe.’ Now, without re-adverting to
      the fact that stronger evidence ‘to make others believe,’ could never have
      been adduced, it may be remarked that a man may very well be understood to
      believe, in a case of this kind, without the ability to advance a single
      reason for the belief of a second party. Nothing is more vague than
      impressions of individual identity. Each man recognizes his neighbor, yet
      there are few instances in which any one is prepared to give a reason for
      his recognition. The editor of L’Etoile had no right to be offended at M.
      Beauvais’ unreasoning belief.
    

      “The suspicious circumstances which invest him, will be found to tally
      much better with my hypothesis of romantic busy-bodyism, than with the
      reasoner’s suggestion of guilt. Once adopting the more charitable
      interpretation, we shall find no difficulty in comprehending the rose in
      the key-hole; the ‘Marie’ upon the slate; the ‘elbowing the male relatives
      out of the way;’ the ‘aversion to permitting them to see the body;’ the
      caution given to Madame B——, that she must hold no
      conversation with the gendarme until his return (Beauvais’); and, lastly,
      his apparent determination ‘that nobody should have anything to do with
      the proceedings except himself.’ It seems to me unquestionable that
      Beauvais was a suitor of Marie’s; that she coquetted with him; and that he
      was ambitious of being thought to enjoy her fullest intimacy and
      confidence. I shall say nothing more upon this point; and, as the evidence
      fully rebuts the assertion of L’Etoile, touching the matter of apathy on
      the part of the mother and other relatives—an apathy inconsistent
      with the supposition of their believing the corpse to be that of the
      perfumery-girl—we shall now proceed as if the question of identity
      were settled to our perfect satisfaction.”
     

      “And what,” I here demanded, “do you think of the opinions of Le
      Commerciel?”
     

      “That, in spirit, they are far more worthy of attention than any which
      have been promulgated upon the subject. The deductions from the premises
      are philosophical and acute; but the premises, in two instances, at least,
      are founded in imperfect observation. Le Commerciel wishes to intimate
      that Marie was seized by some gang of low ruffians not far from her
      mother’s door. ‘It is impossible,’ it urges, ‘that a person so well known
      to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three blocks
      without some one having seen her.’ This is the idea of a man long resident
      in Paris—a public man—and one whose walks to and fro in the
      city, have been mostly limited to the vicinity of the public offices. He
      is aware that he seldom passes so far as a dozen blocks from his own
      bureau, without being recognized and accosted. And, knowing the extent of
      his personal acquaintance with others, and of others with him, he compares
      his notoriety with that of the perfumery-girl, finds no great difference
      between them, and reaches at once the conclusion that she, in her walks,
      would be equally liable to recognition with himself in his. This could
      only be the case were her walks of the same unvarying, methodical
      character, and within the same species of limited region as are his own.
      He passes to and fro, at regular intervals, within a confined periphery,
      abounding in individuals who are led to observation of his person through
      interest in the kindred nature of his occupation with their own. But the
      walks of Marie may, in general, be supposed discursive. In this particular
      instance, it will be understood as most probable, that she proceeded upon
      a route of more than average diversity from her accustomed ones. The
      parallel which we imagine to have existed in the mind of Le Commerciel
      would only be sustained in the event of the two individuals traversing
      the whole city. In this case, granting the personal acquaintances to be
      equal, the chances would be also equal that an equal number of personal
      rencounters would be made. For my own part, I should hold it not only as
      possible, but as very far more than probable, that Marie might have
      proceeded, at any given period, by any one of the many routes between her
      own residence and that of her aunt, without meeting a single individual
      whom she knew, or by whom she was known. In viewing this question in its
      full and proper light, we must hold steadily in mind the great
      disproportion between the personal acquaintances of even the most noted
      individual in Paris, and the entire population of Paris itself.
    

      “But whatever force there may still appear to be in the suggestion of Le
      Commerciel, will be much diminished when we take into consideration the
      hour at which the girl went abroad. ‘It was when the streets were full of
      people,’ says Le Commerciel, ‘that she went out.’ But not so. It was at
      nine o’clock in the morning. Now at nine o’clock of every morning in the
      week, 
with the exception of Sunday
, the streets of the city are, it
      is true, thronged with people. At nine on Sunday, the populace are chiefly
      within doors 
preparing for church
. No observing person can have
      failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from about eight
      until ten on the morning of every Sabbath. Between ten and eleven the
      streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that designated.
    

      “There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation
      on the part of Le Commerciel. ‘A piece,’ it says, ‘of one of the
      unfortunate girl’s petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was torn
      out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to
      prevent screams. This was done, by fellows who had no
      pocket-handkerchiefs.’ Whether this idea is, or is not well founded, we
      will endeavor to see hereafter; but by ‘fellows who have no
      pocket-handkerchiefs’ the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians.
      These, however, are the very description of people who will always be
      found to have handkerchiefs even when destitute of shirts. You must have
      had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to
      the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket-handkerchief.”
     

      “And what are we to think,” I asked, “of the article in Le Soleil?”
     

      “That it is a vast pity its inditer was not born a parrot—in which
      case he would have been the most illustrious parrot of his race. He has
      merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion;
      collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from that.
      ‘The things had all evidently been there,’ he says, ‘at least, three or
      four weeks, and there can be 
no doubt
 that the spot of this
      appalling outrage has been discovered.’ The facts here re-stated by Le
      Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject,
      and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with
      another division of the theme.
    

      “At present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations. You cannot
      fail to have remarked the extreme laxity of the examination of the corpse.
      To be sure, the question of identity was readily determined, or should
      have been; but there were other points to be ascertained. Had the body
      been in any respect despoiled? Had the deceased any articles of jewelry
      about her person upon leaving home? if so, had she any when found? These
      are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence; and there are
      others of equal moment, which have met with no attention. We must endeavor
      to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry. The case of St. Eustache must be
      re-examined. I have no suspicion of this person; but let us proceed
      methodically. We will ascertain beyond a doubt the validity of the
      affidavits in regard to his whereabouts on the Sunday. Affidavits of this
      character are readily made matter of mystification. Should there be
      nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss St. Eustache from our
      investigations. His suicide, however corroborative of suspicion, were
      there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without such deceit, in no
      respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which need cause us to
      deflect from the line of ordinary analysis.
    

      “In that which I now propose, we will discard the interior points of this
      tragedy, and concentrate our attention upon its outskirts. Not the least
      usual error, in investigations such as this, is the limiting of inquiry to
      the immediate, with total disregard of the collateral or circumstantial
      events. It is the mal-practice of the courts to confine evidence and
      discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy. Yet experience has shown,
      and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger
      portion of truth, arises from the seemingly irrelevant. It is through the
      spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern
      science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen. But perhaps you do
      not comprehend me. The history of human knowledge has so uninterruptedly
      shown that to collateral, or incidental, or accidental events we are
      indebted for the most numerous and most valuable discoveries, that it has
      at length become necessary, in any prospective view of improvement, to
      make not only large, but the largest allowances for inventions that shall
      arise by chance, and quite out of the range of ordinary expectation. It is
      no longer philosophical to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is
      to be. Accident is admitted as a portion of the substructure. We make
      chance a matter of absolute calculation. We subject the unlooked for and
      unimagined to the mathematical 
formulae
 of the schools.
    

      “I repeat that it is no more than fact, that the larger portion of all
      truth has sprung from the collateral; and it is but in accordance with the
      spirit of the principle involved in this fact, that I would divert
      inquiry, in the present case, from the trodden and hitherto unfruitful
      ground of the event itself, to the contemporary circumstances which
      surround it. While you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, I will
      examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done. So far,
      we have only reconnoitred the field of investigation; but it will be
      strange indeed if a comprehensive survey, such as I propose, of the public
      prints, will not afford us some minute points which shall establish a
      direction for inquiry.”
     

      In pursuance of Dupin’s suggestion, I made scrupulous examination of the
      affair of the affidavits. The result was a firm conviction of their
      validity, and of the consequent innocence of St. Eustache. In the mean
      time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness
      altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files. At
      the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts:
    

      “About three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the
      present, was caused by the disappearance of this same Marie Rogêt,
      from the parfumerie of Monsieur Le Blanc, in the Palais Royal. At the end
      of a week, however, she re-appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as
      ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual. It was
      given out by Monsieur Le Blanc and her mother, that she had merely been on
      a visit to some friend in the country; and the affair was speedily hushed
      up. We presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and
      that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have
      her among us again.”—Evening Paper—Monday, June 23. (*17)
    

      “An evening journal of yesterday, refers to a former mysterious
      disappearance of Mademoiselle Rogêt. It is well known that, during
      the week of her absence from Le Blanc’s parfumerie, she was in the company
      of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries. A quarrel, it
      is supposed, providentially led to her return home. We have the name of
      the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but, for
      obvious reasons, forbear to make it public.”—Le Mercurie—Tuesday
      Morning, June 24. (*18)
    

      “An outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this city
      the day before yesterday. A gentleman, with his wife and daughter,
      engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing a
      boat to and fro near the banks of the Seine, to convey him across the
      river. Upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped out,
      and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat, when the
      daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol. She returned for
      it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream, gagged, brutally
      treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point not far from that at
      which she had originally entered the boat with her parents. The villains
      have escaped for the time, but the police are upon their trail, and some
      of them will soon be taken.”—Morning Paper—June 25. (*19)
    

      “We have received one or two communications, the object of which is to
      fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon Mennais; (*20) but as this
      gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the
      arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than
      profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public.”—Morning
      Paper—June 28. (*21)
    

      “We have received several forcibly written communications, apparently from
      various sources, and which go far to render it a matter of certainty that
      the unfortunate Marie Rogêt has become a victim of one of the
      numerous bands of blackguards which infest the vicinity of the city upon
      Sunday. Our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this supposition. We
      shall endeavor to make room for some of these arguments hereafter.”—Evening
      Paper—Tuesday, June 31. (*22)
    

      “On Monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw an
      empty boat floating down the Seine. Sails were lying in the bottom of the
      boat. The bargeman towed it under the barge office. The next morning it
      was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers. The
      rudder is now at the barge office.”—Le Diligence—Thursday,
      June 26.
    

      Upon reading these various extracts, they not only seemed to me
      irrelevant, but I could perceive no mode in which any one of them could be
      brought to bear upon the matter in hand. I waited for some explanation
      from Dupin.
    

      “It is not my present design,” he said, “to dwell upon the first and
      second of those extracts. I have copied them chiefly to show you the
      extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as I can understand from the
      Prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an examination
      of the naval officer alluded to. Yet it is mere folly to say that between
      the first and second disappearance of Marie there is no 
supposable

      connection. Let us admit the first elopement to have resulted in a quarrel
      between the lovers, and the return home of the betrayed. We are now
      prepared to view a second elopement (if we know that an elopement has
      again taken place) as indicating a renewal of the betrayer’s advances,
      rather than as the result of new proposals by a second individual—we
      are prepared to regard it as a ‘making up’ of the old amour, rather than
      as the commencement of a new one. The chances are ten to one, that he who
      had once eloped with Marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than
      that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual,
      should have them made to her by another. And here let me call your
      attention to the fact, that the time elapsing between the first
      ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is a few months more than
      the general period of the cruises of our men-of-war. Had the lover been
      interrupted in his first villany by the necessity of departure to sea, and
      had he seized the first moment of his return to renew the base designs not
      yet altogether accomplished—or not yet altogether accomplished by 
him?

      Of all these things we know nothing.