By the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown
      upon Beauvais. A visitor at his office, a few days prior to the girl’s
      disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a rose
      in the key-hole of the door, and the name “Marie” inscribed upon a slate
      which hung near at hand.
    

      The general impression, so far as we were enabled to glean it from the
      newspapers, seemed to be, that Marie had been the victim of a gang of
      desperadoes—that by these she had been borne across the river,
      maltreated and murdered. Le Commerciel, (*11) however, a print of
      extensive influence, was earnest in combating this popular idea. I quote a
      passage or two from its columns:
    

      “We are persuaded that pursuit has hitherto been on a false scent, so far
      as it has been directed to the Barrière du Roule. It is impossible
      that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should
      have passed three blocks without some one having seen her; and any one who
      saw her would have remembered it, for she interested all who knew her. It
      was when the streets were full of people, when she went out.... It is
      impossible that she could have gone to the Barrière du Roule, or to
      the Rue des Drômes, without being recognized by a dozen persons;
      yet no one has come forward who saw her outside of her mother’s door, and
      there is no evidence, except the testimony concerning her expressed
      intentions, that she did go out at all. Her gown was torn, bound round
      her, and tied; and by that the body was carried as a bundle. If the murder
      had been committed at the Barrière du Roule, there would have been
      no necessity for any such arrangement. The fact that the body was found
      floating near the Barrière, is no proof as to where it was thrown
      into the water..... A piece of one of the unfortunate girl’s petticoats,
      two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin
      around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams. This was done by
      fellows who had no pocket-handkerchief.”
     

      A day or two before the Prefect called upon us, however, some important
      information reached the police, which seemed to overthrow, at least, the
      chief portion of Le Commerciel’s argument. Two small boys, sons of a
      Madame Deluc, while roaming among the woods near the Barrière du
      Roule, chanced to penetrate a close thicket, within which were three or
      four large stones, forming a kind of seat, with a back and footstool. On
      the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf. A
      parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief were also here found. The
      handkerchief bore the name “Marie Rogêt.” Fragments of dress were
      discovered on the brambles around. The earth was trampled, the bushes were
      broken, and there was every evidence of a struggle. Between the thicket
      and the river, the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore
      evidence of some heavy burthen having been dragged along it.
    

      A weekly paper, Le Soleil,(*12) had the following comments upon this
      discovery—comments which merely echoed the sentiment of the whole
      Parisian press:
    

      “The things had all evidently been there at least three or four weeks;
      they were all mildewed down hard with the action of the rain and stuck
      together from mildew. The grass had grown around and over some of them.
      The silk on the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run
      together within. The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was
      all mildewed and rotten, and tore on its being opened..... The pieces of
      her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six
      inches long. One part was the hem of the frock, and it had been mended;
      the other piece was part of the skirt, not the hem. They looked like
      strips torn off, and were on the thorn bush, about a foot from the
      ground..... There can be no doubt, therefore, that the spot of this
      appalling outrage has been discovered.”
     

      Consequent upon this discovery, new evidence appeared. Madame Deluc
      testified that she keeps a roadside inn not far from the bank of the
      river, opposite the Barrière du Roule. The neighborhood is secluded—particularly
      so. It is the usual Sunday resort of blackguards from the city, who cross
      the river in boats. About three o’clock, in the afternoon of the Sunday in
      question, a young girl arrived at the inn, accompanied by a young man of
      dark complexion. The two remained here for some time. On their departure,
      they took the road to some thick woods in the vicinity. Madame Deluc’s
      attention was called to the dress worn by the girl, on account of its
      resemblance to one worn by a deceased relative. A scarf was particularly
      noticed. Soon after the departure of the couple, a gang of miscreants made
      their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making
      payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the
      inn about dusk, and re-crossed the river as if in great haste.
    

      It was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that Madame Deluc, as well
      as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the
      inn. The screams were violent but brief. Madame D. recognized not only the
      scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was discovered
      upon the corpse. An omnibus driver, Valence, (*13) now also testified that
      he saw Marie Rogêt cross a ferry on the Seine, on the Sunday in
      question, in company with a young man of dark complexion. He, Valence,
      knew Marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity. The articles found
      in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of Marie.
    

      The items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from the
      newspapers, at the suggestion of Dupin, embraced only one more point—but
      this was a point of seemingly vast consequence. It appears that,
      immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described, the
      lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of St. Eustache, Marie’s betrothed, was
      found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene of the outrage. A
      phial labelled “laudanum,” and emptied, was found near him. His breath
      gave evidence of the poison. He died without speaking. Upon his person was
      found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie, with his design of
      self-destruction.
    

      “I need scarcely tell you,” said Dupin, as he finished the perusal of my
      notes, “that this is a far more intricate case than that of the Rue
      Morgue; from which it differs in one important respect. This is an
      ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime. There is nothing
      peculiarly outré about it. You will observe that, for this reason,
      the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should
      have been considered difficult, of solution. Thus; at first, it was
      thought unnecessary to offer a reward. The myrmidons of G——
      were able at once to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have
      been committed. They could picture to their imaginations a mode—many
      modes—and a motive—many motives; and because it was not
      impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been
      the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must. But
      the case with which these variable fancies were entertained, and the very
      plausibility which each assumed, should have been understood as indicative
      rather of the difficulties than of the facilities which must attend
      elucidation. I have before observed that it is by prominences above the
      plane of the ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search
      for the true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not
      so much ‘what has occurred?’ as ‘what has occurred that has never occurred
      before?’ In the investigations at the house of Madame L’Espanaye, (*14)
      the agents of G—— were discouraged and confounded by that very
      unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have afforded
      the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might have been
      plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met the eye in
      the case of the perfumery-girl, and yet told of nothing but easy triumph
      to the functionaries of the Prefecture.
    

      “In the case of Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter there was, even at the
      beginning of our investigation, no doubt that murder had been committed.
      The idea of suicide was excluded at once. Here, too, we are freed, at the
      commencement, from all supposition of self-murder. The body found at the
      Barrière du Roule, was found under such circumstances as to leave
      us no room for embarrassment upon this important point. But it has been
      suggested that the corpse discovered, is not that of the Marie Rogêt
      for the conviction of whose assassin, or assassins, the reward is offered,
      and respecting whom, solely, our agreement has been arranged with the
      Prefect. We both know this gentleman well. It will not do to trust him too
      far. If, dating our inquiries from the body found, and thence tracing a
      murderer, we yet discover this body to be that of some other individual
      than Marie; or, if starting from the living Marie, we find her, yet find
      her unassassinated—in either case we lose our labor; since it is
      Monsieur G—— with whom we have to deal. For our own purpose,
      therefore, if not for the purpose of justice, it is indispensable that our
      first step should be the determination of the identity of the corpse with
      the Marie Rogêt who is missing.
    

      “With the public the arguments of L’Etoile have had weight; and that the
      journal itself is convinced of their importance would appear from the
      manner in which it commences one of its essays upon the subject—‘Several
      of the morning papers of the day,’ it says, ‘speak of the 
conclusive

      article in Monday’s Etoile.’ To me, this article appears conclusive of
      little beyond the zeal of its inditer. We should bear in mind that, in
      general, it is the object of our newspapers rather to create a sensation—to
      make a point—than to further the cause of truth. The latter end is
      only pursued when it seems coincident with the former. The print which
      merely falls in with ordinary opinion (however well founded this opinion
      may be) earns for itself no credit with the mob. The mass of the people
      regard as profound only him who suggests 
pungent contradictions
 of
      the general idea. In ratiocination, not less than in literature, it is the
      epigram which is the most immediately and the most universally
      appreciated. In both, it is of the lowest order of merit.
    

      “What I mean to say is, that it is the mingled epigram and melodrame of
      the idea, that Marie Rogêt still lives, rather than any true
      plausibility in this idea, which have suggested it to L’Etoile, and
      secured it a favorable reception with the public. Let us examine the heads
      of this journal’s argument; endeavoring to avoid the incoherence with
      which it is originally set forth.
    

      “The first aim of the writer is to show, from the brevity of the interval
      between Marie’s disappearance and the finding of the floating corpse, that
      this corpse cannot be that of Marie. The reduction of this interval to its
      smallest possible dimension, becomes thus, at once, an object with the
      reasoner. In the rash pursuit of this object, he rushes into mere
      assumption at the outset. ‘It is folly to suppose,’ he says, ‘that the
      murder, if murder was committed on her body, could have been consummated
      soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river
      before midnight.’ We demand at once, and very naturally, why? Why is it
      folly to suppose that the murder was committed 
within five minutes

      after the girl’s quitting her mother’s house? Why is it folly to suppose
      that the murder was committed at any given period of the day? There have
      been assassinations at all hours. But, had the murder taken place at any
      moment between nine o’clock in the morning of Sunday, and a quarter before
      midnight, there would still have been time enough ‘to throw the body into
      the river before midnight.’ This assumption, then, amounts precisely to
      this—that the murder was not committed on Sunday at all—and,
      if we allow L’Etoile to assume this, we may permit it any liberties
      whatever. The paragraph beginning ‘It is folly to suppose that the murder,
      etc.,’ however it appears as printed in L’Etoile, may be imagined to have
      existed actually thus in the brain of its inditer—‘It is folly to
      suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on the body, could have
      been committed soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body
      into the river before midnight; it is folly, we say, to suppose all this,
      and to suppose at the same time, (as we are resolved to suppose,) that the
      body was not thrown in until after midnight’—a sentence sufficiently
      inconsequential in itself, but not so utterly preposterous as the one
      printed.
    

      “Were it my purpose,” continued Dupin, “merely to 
make out a case

      against this passage of L’Etoile’s argument, I might safely leave it where
      it is. It is not, however, with L’Etoile that we have to do, but with the
      truth. The sentence in question has but one meaning, as it stands; and
      this meaning I have fairly stated; but it is material that we go behind
      the mere words, for an idea which these words have obviously intended, and
      failed to convey. It was the design of the journalist to say that, at
      whatever period of the day or night of Sunday this murder was committed,
      it was improbable that the assassins would have ventured to bear the
      corpse to the river before midnight. And herein lies, really, the
      assumption of which I complain. It is assumed that the murder was
      committed at such a position, and under such circumstances, that the
      bearing it to the river became necessary. Now, the assassination might
      have taken place upon the river’s brink, or on the river itself; and,
      thus, the throwing the corpse in the water might have been resorted to, at
      any period of the day or night, as the most obvious and most immediate
      mode of disposal. You will understand that I suggest nothing here as
      probable, or as cöincident with my own opinion. My design, so far,
      has no reference to the facts of the case. I wish merely to caution you
      against the whole tone of L’Etoile’s suggestion, by calling your attention
      to its ex parte character at the outset.
    

      “Having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions;
      having assumed that, if this were the body of Marie, it could have been in
      the water but a very brief time, the journal goes on to say:
    

      ‘All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the
      water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days
      for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the
      water. Even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at
      least five or six days’ immersion, it sinks again if let alone.’
    

      “These assertions have been tacitly received by every paper in Paris, with
      the exception of Le Moniteur. (*15) This latter print endeavors to combat
      that portion of the paragraph which has reference to ‘drowned bodies’
      only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies of
      individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse of
      less time than is insisted upon by L’Etoile. But there is something
      excessively unphilosophical in the attempt on the part of Le Moniteur, to
      rebut the general assertion of L’Etoile, by a citation of particular
      instances militating against that assertion. Had it been possible to
      adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the end
      of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been properly
      regarded only as exceptions to L’Etoile’s rule, until such time as the
      rule itself should be confuted. Admitting the rule, (and this Le Moniteur
      does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions,) the argument of
      L’Etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this argument does not
      pretend to involve more than a question of the probability of the body
      having risen to the surface in less than three days; and this probability
      will be in favor of L’Etoile’s position until the instances so childishly
      adduced shall be sufficient in number to establish an antagonistical rule.
    

      “You will see at once that all argument upon this head should be urged, if
      at all, against the rule itself; and for this end we must examine the
      rationale of the rule. Now the human body, in general, is neither much
      lighter nor much heavier than the water of the Seine; that is to say, the
      specific gravity of the human body, in its natural condition, is about
      equal to the bulk of fresh water which it displaces. The bodies of fat and
      fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally, are lighter than
      those of the lean and large-boned, and of men; and the specific gravity of
      the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the presence of the tide
      from sea. But, leaving this tide out of question, it may be said that very
      few human bodies will sink at all, even in fresh water, of their own
      accord. Almost any one, falling into a river, will be enabled to float, if
      he suffer the specific gravity of the water fairly to be adduced in
      comparison with his own—that is to say, if he suffer his whole
      person to be immersed, with as little exception as possible. The proper
      position for one who cannot swim, is the upright position of the walker on
      land, with the head thrown fully back, and immersed; the mouth and
      nostrils alone remaining above the surface. Thus circumstanced, we shall
      find that we float without difficulty and without exertion. It is evident,
      however, that the gravities of the body, and of the bulk of water
      displaced, are very nicely balanced, and that a trifle will cause either
      to preponderate. An arm, for instance, uplifted from the water, and thus
      deprived of its support, is an additional weight sufficient to immerse the
      whole head, while the accidental aid of the smallest piece of timber will
      enable us to elevate the head so as to look about. Now, in the struggles
      of one unused to swimming, the arms are invariably thrown upwards, while
      an attempt is made to keep the head in its usual perpendicular position.
      The result is the immersion of the mouth and nostrils, and the inception,
      during efforts to breathe while beneath the surface, of water into the
      lungs. Much is also received into the stomach, and the whole body becomes
      heavier by the difference between the weight of the air originally
      distending these cavities, and that of the fluid which now fills them.
      This difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general
      rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones and
      an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter. Such individuals float
      even after drowning.
    

      “The corpse, being supposed at the bottom of the river, will there remain
      until, by some means, its specific gravity again becomes less than that of
      the bulk of water which it displaces. This effect is brought about by
      decomposition, or otherwise. The result of decomposition is the generation
      of gas, distending the cellular tissues and all the cavities, and giving
      the puffed appearance which is so horrible. When this distension has so
      far progressed that the bulk of the corpse is materially increased without
      a corresponding increase of mass or weight, its specific gravity becomes
      less than that of the water displaced, and it forthwith makes its
      appearance at the surface. But decomposition is modified by innumerable
      circumstances—is hastened or retarded by innumerable agencies; for
      example, by the heat or cold of the season, by the mineral impregnation or
      purity of the water, by its depth or shallowness, by its currency or
      stagnation, by the temperament of the body, by its infection or freedom
      from disease before death. Thus it is evident that we can assign no
      period, with any thing like accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise
      through decomposition. Under certain conditions this result would be
      brought about within an hour; under others, it might not take place at
      all. There are chemical infusions by which the animal frame can be
      preserved forever from corruption; the bi-chloride of mercury is one. But,
      apart from decomposition, there may be, and very usually is, a generation
      of gas within the stomach, from the acetous fermentation of vegetable
      matter (or within other cavities from other causes), sufficient to induce a
      distension which will bring the body to the surface. The effect produced
      by the firing of a cannon is that of simple vibration. This may either
      loosen the corpse from the soft mud or ooze in which it is imbedded, thus
      permitting it to rise when other agencies have already prepared it for so
      doing; or it may overcome the tenacity of some putrescent portions of the
      cellular tissue; allowing the cavities to distend under the influence of
      the gas.
    

      “Having thus before us the whole philosophy of this subject, we can easily
      test by it the assertions of L’Etoile. ‘All experience shows,’ says this
      paper, ‘that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately
      after death by violence, require from six to ten days for sufficient
      decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water. Even
      when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or
      six days’ immersion, it sinks again if let alone.’
    

      “The whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence and
      incoherence. All experience does not show that ‘drowned bodies’ require
      from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring
      them to the surface. Both science and experience show that the period of
      their rising is, and necessarily must be, indeterminate. If, moreover, a
      body has risen to the surface through firing of cannon, it will not ‘sink
      again if let alone,’ until decomposition has so far progressed as to
      permit the escape of the generated gas. But I wish to call your attention
      to the distinction which is made between ‘drowned bodies,’ and ‘bodies
      thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.’ Although the
      writer admits the distinction, he yet includes them all in the same
      category. I have shown how it is that the body of a drowning man becomes
      specifically heavier than its bulk of water, and that he would not sink at
      all, except for the struggles by which he elevates his arms above the
      surface, and his gasps for breath while beneath the surface—gasps
      which supply by water the place of the original air in the lungs. But
      these struggles and these gasps would not occur in the body ‘thrown into
      the water immediately after death by violence.’ Thus, in the latter
      instance, the body, as a general rule, would not sink at all—a fact
      of which L’Etoile is evidently ignorant. When decomposition had proceeded
      to a very great extent—when the flesh had in a great measure left
      the bones—then, indeed, but not till then, should we lose sight of
      the corpse.
    

      “And now what are we to make of the argument, that the body found could
      not be that of Marie Rogêt, because, three days only having
      elapsed, this body was found floating? If drowned, being a woman, she
      might never have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in
      twenty-four hours, or less. But no one supposes her to have been drowned;
      and, dying before being thrown into the river, she might have been found
      floating at any period afterwards whatever.