      “I repeat that it is no more than fact, that the larger portion of all
      truth has sprung from the collateral; and it is but in accordance with the
      spirit of the principle involved in this fact, that I would divert
      inquiry, in the present case, from the trodden and hitherto unfruitful
      ground of the event itself, to the contemporary circumstances which
      surround it. While you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, I will
      examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done. So far,
      we have only reconnoitred the field of investigation; but it will be
      strange indeed if a comprehensive survey, such as I propose, of the public
      prints, will not afford us some minute points which shall establish a
      direction for inquiry.”
     

      “About three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the
      present, was caused by the disappearance of this same Marie Rogêt,
      from the parfumerie of Monsieur Le Blanc, in the Palais Royal. At the end
      of a week, however, she re-appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as
      ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual. It was
      given out by Monsieur Le Blanc and her mother, that she had merely been on
      a visit to some friend in the country; and the affair was speedily hushed
      up. We presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and
      that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have
      her among us again.”—Evening Paper—Monday, June 23. (*17)
    

      “An evening journal of yesterday, refers to a former mysterious
      disappearance of Mademoiselle Rogêt. It is well known that, during
      the week of her absence from Le Blanc’s parfumerie, she was in the company
      of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries. A quarrel, it
      is supposed, providentially led to her return home. We have the name of
      the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but, for
      obvious reasons, forbear to make it public.”—Le Mercurie—Tuesday
      Morning, June 24. (*18)
    

      “An outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this city
      the day before yesterday. A gentleman, with his wife and daughter,
      engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing a
      boat to and fro near the banks of the Seine, to convey him across the
      river. Upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped out,
      and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat, when the
      daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol. She returned for
      it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream, gagged, brutally
      treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point not far from that at
      which she had originally entered the boat with her parents. The villains
      have escaped for the time, but the police are upon their trail, and some
      of them will soon be taken.”—Morning Paper—June 25. (*19)
    

      “We have received one or two communications, the object of which is to
      fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon Mennais; (*20) but as this
      gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the
      arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than
      profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public.”—Morning
      Paper—June 28. (*21)
    

      “We have received several forcibly written communications, apparently from
      various sources, and which go far to render it a matter of certainty that
      the unfortunate Marie Rogêt has become a victim of one of the
      numerous bands of blackguards which infest the vicinity of the city upon
      Sunday. Our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this supposition. We
      shall endeavor to make room for some of these arguments hereafter.”—Evening
      Paper—Tuesday, June 31. (*22)
    

      “On Monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw an
      empty boat floating down the Seine. Sails were lying in the bottom of the
      boat. The bargeman towed it under the barge office. The next morning it
      was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers. The
      rudder is now at the barge office.”—Le Diligence—Thursday,
      June 26.
    

      “It is not my present design,” he said, “to dwell upon the first and
      second of those extracts. I have copied them chiefly to show you the
      extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as I can understand from the
      Prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an examination
      of the naval officer alluded to. Yet it is mere folly to say that between
      the first and second disappearance of Marie there is no 
supposable

      connection. Let us admit the first elopement to have resulted in a quarrel
      between the lovers, and the return home of the betrayed. We are now
      prepared to view a second elopement (if we know that an elopement has
      again taken place) as indicating a renewal of the betrayer’s advances,
      rather than as the result of new proposals by a second individual—we
      are prepared to regard it as a ‘making up’ of the old amour, rather than
      as the commencement of a new one. The chances are ten to one, that he who
      had once eloped with Marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than
      that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual,
      should have them made to her by another. And here let me call your
      attention to the fact, that the time elapsing between the first
      ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is a few months more than
      the general period of the cruises of our men-of-war. Had the lover been
      interrupted in his first villany by the necessity of departure to sea, and
      had he seized the first moment of his return to renew the base designs not
      yet altogether accomplished—or not yet altogether accomplished by 
him?