      “But whatever force there may still appear to be in the suggestion of Le
      Commerciel, will be much diminished when we take into consideration the
      hour at which the girl went abroad. ‘It was when the streets were full of
      people,’ says Le Commerciel, ‘that she went out.’ But not so. It was at
      nine o’clock in the morning. Now at nine o’clock of every morning in the
      week, 
with the exception of Sunday
, the streets of the city are, it
      is true, thronged with people. At nine on Sunday, the populace are chiefly
      within doors 
preparing for church
. No observing person can have
      failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from about eight
      until ten on the morning of every Sabbath. Between ten and eleven the
      streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that designated.
    

      “There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation
      on the part of Le Commerciel. ‘A piece,’ it says, ‘of one of the
      unfortunate girl’s petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was torn
      out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to
      prevent screams. This was done, by fellows who had no
      pocket-handkerchiefs.’ Whether this idea is, or is not well founded, we
      will endeavor to see hereafter; but by ‘fellows who have no
      pocket-handkerchiefs’ the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians.
      These, however, are the very description of people who will always be
      found to have handkerchiefs even when destitute of shirts. You must have
      had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to
      the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket-handkerchief.”
     

      “And what are we to think,” I asked, “of the article in Le Soleil?”
     

      “That it is a vast pity its inditer was not born a parrot—in which
      case he would have been the most illustrious parrot of his race. He has
      merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion;
      collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from that.
      ‘The things had all evidently been there,’ he says, ‘at least, three or
      four weeks, and there can be 
no doubt
 that the spot of this
      appalling outrage has been discovered.’ The facts here re-stated by Le
      Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject,
      and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with
      another division of the theme.
    

      “At present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations. You cannot
      fail to have remarked the extreme laxity of the examination of the corpse.
      To be sure, the question of identity was readily determined, or should
      have been; but there were other points to be ascertained. Had the body
      been in any respect despoiled? Had the deceased any articles of jewelry
      about her person upon leaving home? if so, had she any when found? These
      are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence; and there are
      others of equal moment, which have met with no attention. We must endeavor
      to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry. The case of St. Eustache must be
      re-examined. I have no suspicion of this person; but let us proceed
      methodically. We will ascertain beyond a doubt the validity of the
      affidavits in regard to his whereabouts on the Sunday. Affidavits of this
      character are readily made matter of mystification. Should there be
      nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss St. Eustache from our
      investigations. His suicide, however corroborative of suspicion, were
      there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without such deceit, in no
      respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which need cause us to
      deflect from the line of ordinary analysis.
    

      “In that which I now propose, we will discard the interior points of this
      tragedy, and concentrate our attention upon its outskirts. Not the least
      usual error, in investigations such as this, is the limiting of inquiry to
      the immediate, with total disregard of the collateral or circumstantial
      events. It is the mal-practice of the courts to confine evidence and
      discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy. Yet experience has shown,
      and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger
      portion of truth, arises from the seemingly irrelevant. It is through the
      spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern
      science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen. But perhaps you do
      not comprehend me. The history of human knowledge has so uninterruptedly
      shown that to collateral, or incidental, or accidental events we are
      indebted for the most numerous and most valuable discoveries, that it has
      at length become necessary, in any prospective view of improvement, to
      make not only large, but the largest allowances for inventions that shall
      arise by chance, and quite out of the range of ordinary expectation. It is
      no longer philosophical to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is
      to be. Accident is admitted as a portion of the substructure. We make
      chance a matter of absolute calculation. We subject the unlooked for and
      unimagined to the mathematical 
formulae
 of the schools.
    

      In pursuance of Dupin’s suggestion, I made scrupulous examination of the
      affair of the affidavits. The result was a firm conviction of their
      validity, and of the consequent innocence of St. Eustache. In the mean
      time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness
      altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files. At
      the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts:
    

      Upon reading these various extracts, they not only seemed to me
      irrelevant, but I could perceive no mode in which any one of them could be
      brought to bear upon the matter in hand. I waited for some explanation
      from Dupin.
    

      Of all these things we know nothing.