      “And here, most fitly, comes the consideration of the continued absence of
      him of the dark complexion. Let me pause to observe that the complexion of
      this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness which
      constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards Valence and
      Madame Deluc. But why is this man absent? Was he murdered by the gang? If
      so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl? The scene of the
      two outrages will naturally be supposed identical. And where is his
      corpse? The assassins would most probably have disposed of both in the
      same way. But it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from
      making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder. This
      consideration might be supposed to operate upon him now—at this late
      period—since it has been given in evidence that he was seen with
      Marie—but it would have had no force at the period of the deed. The
      first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce the outrage,
      and to aid in identifying the ruffians. This policy would have suggested.
      He had been seen with the girl. He had crossed the river with her in an
      open ferry-boat. The denouncing of the assassins would have appeared, even
      to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving himself from
      suspicion. We cannot suppose him, on the night of the fatal Sunday, both
      innocent himself and incognizant of an outrage committed. Yet only under
      such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he would have failed, if
      alive, in the denouncement of the assassins.
    

      “And what means are ours, of attaining the truth? We shall find these
      means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed. Let us sift to
      the bottom this affair of the first elopement. Let us know the full
      history of ‘the officer,’ with his present circumstances, and his
      whereabouts at the precise period of the murder. Let us carefully compare
      with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in
      which the object was to inculpate a gang. This done, let us compare these
      communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the
      morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the
      guilt of Mennais. And, all this done, let us again compare these various
      communications with the known MSS. of the officer. Let us endeavor to
      ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well
      as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal
      appearance and bearing of the ‘man of dark complexion.’ Queries, skilfully
      directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information
      on this particular point (or upon others)—information which the
      parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing. And let us now
      trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of Monday the
      twenty-third of June, and which was removed from the barge-office, without
      the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at
      some period prior to the discovery of the corpse. With a proper caution
      and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the
      bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand. The
      rudder of a sail-boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by
      one altogether at ease in heart. And here let me pause to insinuate a
      question. There was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat. It
      was silently taken to the barge-office, and as silently removed. But its
      owner or employer—how happened he, at so early a period as Tuesday
      morning, to be informed, without the agency of advertisement, of the
      locality of the boat taken up on Monday, unless we imagine some connexion
      with the navy—some personal permanent connexion leading to
      cognizance of its minute in interests—its petty local news?
    

      “In speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore, I
      have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a boat.
      Now we are to understand that Marie Rogêt was precipitated from a
      boat. This would naturally have been the case. The corpse could not have
      been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore. The peculiar marks on the
      back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat. That
      the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea. If
      thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached. We can only
      account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected the
      precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off. In the act of
      consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have noticed
      his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand. Any risk would
      have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore. Having rid himself
      of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have hastened to the city.
      There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land. But the boat—would
      he have secured it? He would have been in too great haste for such things
      as securing a boat. Moreover, in fastening it to the wharf, he would have
      felt as if securing evidence against himself. His natural thought would
      have been to cast from him, as far as possible, all that had held
      connection with his crime. He would not only have fled from the wharf, but
      he would not have permitted the boat to remain. Assuredly he would have
      cast it adrift. Let us pursue our fancies.—In the morning, the
      wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has
      been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit
      of frequenting —at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him
      to frequent. The next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he
      removes it. Now where is that rudderless boat? Let it be one of our first
      purposes to discover. With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of
      our success shall begin. This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which
      will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of
      the fatal Sabbath. Corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the
      murderer will be traced.”
     

      It will be understood that I speak of coincidences and no more. What I
      have said above upon this topic must suffice. In my own heart there dwells
      no faith in præter-nature. That Nature and its God are two, no man
      who thinks, will deny. That the latter, creating the former, can, at will,
      control or modify it, is also unquestionable. I say “at will;” for the
      question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of
      power. It is not that the Deity cannot modify his laws, but that we insult
      him in imagining a possible necessity for modification. In their origin
      these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in
      the Future. With God all is Now.
    

      I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences. And
      farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the
      unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of
      one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has
      existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the
      reason becomes embarrassed. I say all this will be seen. But let it not
      for a moment be supposed that, in proceeding with the sad narrative of
      Marie from the epoch just mentioned, and in tracing to its dénouement
      the mystery which enshrouded her, it is my covert design to hint at an
      extension of the parallel, or even to suggest that the measures adopted in
      Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette, or measures founded
      in any similar ratiocination, would produce any similar result.
    

      For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be
      considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases
      might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting
      thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an
      error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at
      length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result
      enormously at variance with truth. And, in regard to the former branch, we
      must not fail to hold in view that the very Calculus of Probabilities to
      which I have referred, forbids all idea of the extension of the parallel—forbids
      it with a positiveness strong and decided just in proportion as this
      parallel has already been long-drawn and exact. This is one of those
      anomalous propositions which, seemingly appealing to thought altogether
      apart from the mathematical, is yet one which only the mathematician can
      fully entertain. Nothing, for example, is more difficult than to convince
      the merely general reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice
      in succession by a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the
      largest odds that sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt. A
      suggestion to this effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once. It
      does not appear that the two throws which have been completed, and which
      lie now absolutely in the Past, can have influence upon the throw which
      exists only in the Future. The chance for throwing sixes seems to be
      precisely as it was at any ordinary time—that is to say, subject
      only to the influence of the various other throws which may be made by the
      dice. And this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that
      attempts to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive
      smile than with anything like respectful attention. The error here
      involved—a gross error redolent of mischief—I cannot pretend
      to expose within the limits assigned me at present; and with the
      philosophical it needs no exposure. It may be sufficient here to say that
      it forms one of an infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of
      Reason through her propensity for seeking truth in detail.
    

      (*1) Upon the original publication of “Marie Roget,” the foot-notes now
      appended were considered unnecessary; but the lapse of several years since
      the tragedy upon which the tale is based, renders it expedient to give
      them, and also to say a few words in explanation of the general design. A
      young girl, Mary Cecilia Rogers, was murdered in the vicinity of New York;
      and, although her death occasioned an intense and long-enduring
      excitement, the mystery attending it had remained unsolved at the period
      when the present paper was written and published (November, 1842). Herein,
      under pretence of relating the fate of a Parisian grisette, the author has
      followed in minute detail, the essential, while merely paralleling the
      inessential facts of the real murder of Mary Rogers. Thus all argument
      founded upon the fiction is applicable to the truth: and the investigation
      of the truth was the object. The “Mystery of Marie Roget” was composed at
      a distance from the scene of the atrocity, and with no other means of
      investigation than the newspapers afforded. Thus much escaped the writer
      of which he could have availed himself had he been upon the spot, and
      visited the localities. It may not be improper to record, nevertheless,
      that the confessions of two persons, (one of them the Madame Deluc of the
      narrative) made, at different periods, long subsequent to the publication,
      confirmed, in full, not only the general conclusion, but absolutely all
      the chief hypothetical details by which that conclusion was attained.
    

      (*16) “A theory based on the qualities of an object, will prevent its
      being unfolded according to its objects; and he who arranges topics in
      reference to their causes, will cease to value them according to their
      results. Thus the jurisprudence of every nation will show that, when law
      becomes a science and a system, it ceases to be justice. The errors into
      which a blind devotion to principles of classification has led the common
      law, will be seen by observing how often the legislature has been obliged
      to come forward to restore the equity its scheme had lost.”—Landor.
    

      (*20) Mennais was one of the parties originally suspected and arrested,
      but discharged through total lack of evidence.
    

      (*23) Of the Magazine in which the article was originally published.