      “And here, most fitly, comes the consideration of the continued absence of
      him of the dark complexion. Let me pause to observe that the complexion of
      this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness which
      constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards Valence and
      Madame Deluc. But why is this man absent? Was he murdered by the gang? If
      so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl? The scene of the
      two outrages will naturally be supposed identical. And where is his
      corpse? The assassins would most probably have disposed of both in the
      same way. But it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from
      making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder. This
      consideration might be supposed to operate upon him now—at this late
      period—since it has been given in evidence that he was seen with
      Marie—but it would have had no force at the period of the deed. The
      first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce the outrage,
      and to aid in identifying the ruffians. This policy would have suggested.
      He had been seen with the girl. He had crossed the river with her in an
      open ferry-boat. The denouncing of the assassins would have appeared, even
      to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving himself from
      suspicion. We cannot suppose him, on the night of the fatal Sunday, both
      innocent himself and incognizant of an outrage committed. Yet only under
      such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he would have failed, if
      alive, in the denouncement of the assassins.
    

      “And what means are ours, of attaining the truth? We shall find these
      means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed. Let us sift to
      the bottom this affair of the first elopement. Let us know the full
      history of ‘the officer,’ with his present circumstances, and his
      whereabouts at the precise period of the murder. Let us carefully compare
      with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in
      which the object was to inculpate a gang. This done, let us compare these
      communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the
      morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the
      guilt of Mennais. And, all this done, let us again compare these various
      communications with the known MSS. of the officer. Let us endeavor to
      ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well
      as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal
      appearance and bearing of the ‘man of dark complexion.’ Queries, skilfully
      directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information
      on this particular point (or upon others)—information which the
      parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing. And let us now
      trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of Monday the
      twenty-third of June, and which was removed from the barge-office, without
      the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at
      some period prior to the discovery of the corpse. With a proper caution
      and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the
      bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand. The
      rudder of a sail-boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by
      one altogether at ease in heart. And here let me pause to insinuate a
      question. There was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat. It
      was silently taken to the barge-office, and as silently removed. But its
      owner or employer—how happened he, at so early a period as Tuesday
      morning, to be informed, without the agency of advertisement, of the
      locality of the boat taken up on Monday, unless we imagine some connexion
      with the navy—some personal permanent connexion leading to
      cognizance of its minute in interests—its petty local news?
    

      It will be understood that I speak of coincidences and no more. What I
      have said above upon this topic must suffice. In my own heart there dwells
      no faith in præter-nature. That Nature and its God are two, no man
      who thinks, will deny. That the latter, creating the former, can, at will,
      control or modify it, is also unquestionable. I say “at will;” for the
      question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of
      power. It is not that the Deity cannot modify his laws, but that we insult
      him in imagining a possible necessity for modification. In their origin
      these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in
      the Future. With God all is Now.
    

      I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences. And
      farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the
      unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of
      one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has
      existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the
      reason becomes embarrassed. I say all this will be seen. But let it not
      for a moment be supposed that, in proceeding with the sad narrative of
      Marie from the epoch just mentioned, and in tracing to its dénouement
      the mystery which enshrouded her, it is my covert design to hint at an
      extension of the parallel, or even to suggest that the measures adopted in
      Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette, or measures founded
      in any similar ratiocination, would produce any similar result.
    

      (*16) “A theory based on the qualities of an object, will prevent its
      being unfolded according to its objects; and he who arranges topics in
      reference to their causes, will cease to value them according to their
      results. Thus the jurisprudence of every nation will show that, when law
      becomes a science and a system, it ceases to be justice. The errors into
      which a blind devotion to principles of classification has led the common
      law, will be seen by observing how often the legislature has been obliged
      to come forward to restore the equity its scheme had lost.”—Landor.
    