“And again. I have already mentioned the suspicion to be excited by the
      fact that the articles in question were suffered to remain at all in the
      thicket where discovered. It seems almost impossible that these evidences
      of guilt should have been accidentally left where found. There was
      sufficient presence of mind (it is supposed) to remove the corpse; and yet
      a more positive evidence than the corpse itself (whose features might have
      been quickly obliterated by decay,) is allowed to lie conspicuously in the
      scene of the outrage—I allude to the handkerchief with the name of
      the deceased. If this was accident, it was not the accident of a gang. We
      can imagine it only the accident of an individual. Let us see. An
      individual has committed the murder. He is alone with the ghost of the
      departed. He is appalled by what lies motionless before him. The fury of
      his passion is over, and there is abundant room in his heart for the
      natural awe of the deed. His is none of that confidence which the presence
      of numbers inevitably inspires. He is alone with the dead. He trembles and
      is bewildered. Yet there is a necessity for disposing of the corpse. He
      bears it to the river, but leaves behind him the other evidences of guilt;
      for it is difficult, if not impossible to carry all the burthen at once,
      and it will be easy to return for what is left. But in his toilsome
      journey to the water his fears redouble within him. The sounds of life
      encompass his path. A dozen times he hears or fancies the step of an
      observer. Even the very lights from the city bewilder him. Yet, in time
      and by long and frequent pauses of deep agony, he reaches the river’s
      brink, and disposes of his ghastly charge—perhaps through the medium
      of a boat. But now what treasure does the world hold—what threat of
      vengeance could it hold out—which would have power to urge the
      return of that lonely murderer over that toilsome and perilous path, to
      the thicket and its blood chilling recollections? He returns not, let the
      consequences be what they may. He could not return if he would. His sole
      thought is immediate escape. He turns his back forever upon those dreadful
      shrubberies and flees as from the wrath to come.
    

      “But how with a gang? Their number would have inspired them with
      confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the
      arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed gangs
      ever constituted. Their number, I say, would have prevented the
      bewildering and unreasoning terror which I have imagined to paralyze the
      single man. Could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this
      oversight would have been remedied by a fourth. They would have left
      nothing behind them; for their number would have enabled them to carry all
      at once. There would have been no need of return.
    

      “Consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse
      when found, ‘a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the
      bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured by
      a sort of hitch in the back.’ This was done with the obvious design of
      affording a handle by which to carry the body. But would any number of men
      have dreamed of resorting to such an expedient? To three or four, the
      limbs of the corpse would have afforded not only a sufficient, but the
      best possible hold. The device is that of a single individual; and this
      brings us to the fact that ‘between the thicket and the river, the rails
      of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident traces of
      some heavy burden having been dragged along it!’ But would a number of men
      have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking down a fence, for
      the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they might have lifted
      over any fence in an instant? Would a number of men have so dragged a
      corpse at all as to have left evident traces of the dragging?
    

      “And here we must refer to an observation of Le Commerciel; an observation
      upon which I have already, in some measure, commented. ‘A piece,’ says
      this journal, ‘of one of the unfortunate girl’s petticoats was torn out
      and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to
      prevent screams. This was done by fellows who had no
      pocket-handkerchiefs.’
    

      “I have before suggested that a genuine blackguard is never without a
      pocket-handkerchief. But it is not to this fact that I now especially
      advert. That it was not through want of a handkerchief for the purpose
      imagined by Le Commerciel, that this bandage was employed, is rendered
      apparent by the handkerchief left in the thicket; and that the object was
      not ‘to prevent screams’ appears, also, from the bandage having been
      employed in preference to what would so much better have answered the
      purpose. But the language of the evidence speaks of the strip in question
      as ‘found around the neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a hard knot.’
      These words are sufficiently vague, but differ materially from those of Le
      Commerciel. The slip was eighteen inches wide, and therefore, although of
      muslin, would form a strong band when folded or rumpled longitudinally.
      And thus rumpled it was discovered. My inference is this. The solitary
      murderer, having borne the corpse, for some distance (whether from the
      thicket or elsewhere) by means of the bandage hitched around its middle,
      found the weight, in this mode of procedure, too much for his strength. He
      resolved to drag the burthen—the evidence goes to show that it was
      dragged. With this object in view, it became necessary to attach something
      like a rope to one of the extremities. It could be best attached about the
      neck, where the head would prevent its slipping off. And, now, the
      murderer bethought him, unquestionably, of the bandage about the loins. He
      would have used this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch
      which embarrassed it, and the reflection that it had not been ‘torn off’
      from the garment. It was easier to tear a new slip from the petticoat. He
      tore it, made it fast about the neck, and so dragged his victim to the
      brink of the river. That this ‘bandage,’ only attainable with trouble and
      delay, and but imperfectly answering its purpose—that this bandage
      was employed at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment
      sprang from circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no
      longer attainable—that is to say, arising, as we have imagined,
      after quitting the thicket, (if the thicket it was), and on the road
      between the thicket and the river.
    

      “But the evidence, you will say, of Madame Deluc (!) points especially to
      the presence of a gang, in the vicinity of the thicket, at or about the
      epoch of the murder. This I grant. I doubt if there were not a dozen
      gangs, such as described by Madame Deluc, in and about the vicinity of the
      Barrière du Roule at or about the period of this tragedy. But the
      gang which has drawn upon itself the pointed animadversion, although the
      somewhat tardy and very suspicious evidence of Madame Deluc, is the only
      gang which is represented by that honest and scrupulous old lady as having
      eaten her cakes and swallowed her brandy, without putting themselves to
      the trouble of making her payment. Et hinc illæ iræ?
    

      “But what is the precise evidence of Madame Deluc? ‘A gang of miscreants
      made their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making
      payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the
      inn about dusk, and recrossed the river as if in great haste.’
    

      “Now this ‘great haste’ very possibly seemed greater haste in the eyes of
      Madame Deluc, since she dwelt lingeringly and lamentingly upon her
      violated cakes and ale—cakes and ale for which she might still have
      entertained a faint hope of compensation. Why, otherwise, since it was
      about dusk, should she make a point of the haste? It is no cause for
      wonder, surely, that even a gang of blackguards should make haste to get
      home, when a wide river is to be crossed in small boats, when storm
      impends, and when night approaches.
    

      “I say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived. It was only about
      dusk that the indecent haste of these ‘miscreants’ offended the sober eyes
      of Madame Deluc. But we are told that it was upon this very evening that
      Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, ‘heard the screams of a female in
      the vicinity of the inn.’ And in what words does Madame Deluc designate
      the period of the evening at which these screams were heard? ‘It was soon
      after dark,’ she says. But ‘soon after dark,’ is, at least, dark; and
      ‘about dusk’ is as certainly daylight. Thus it is abundantly clear that
      the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams
      overheard (?) by Madame Deluc. And although, in all the many reports of
      the evidence, the relative expressions in question are distinctly and
      invariably employed just as I have employed them in this conversation with
      yourself, no notice whatever of the gross discrepancy has, as yet, been
      taken by any of the public journals, or by any of the myrmidons of police.
    

      “I shall add but one to the arguments against a gang; but this one has, to
      my own understanding at least, a weight altogether irresistible. Under the
      circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any king’s
      evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a
      gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have
      betrayed his accomplices. Each one of a gang so placed, is not so much
      greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal. He
      betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed. That the
      secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is, in
      fact, a secret. The horrors of this dark deed are known only to one, or
      two, living human beings, and to God.
    

      “Let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis. We
      have attained the idea either of a fatal accident under the roof of Madame
      Deluc, or of a murder perpetrated, in the thicket at the Barrière
      du Roule, by a lover, or at least by an intimate and secret associate of
      the deceased. This associate is of swarthy complexion. This complexion,
      the ‘hitch’ in the bandage, and the ‘sailor’s knot,’ with which the
      bonnet-ribbon is tied, point to a seaman. His companionship with the
      deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the
      grade of the common sailor. Here the well written and urgent
      communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration. The
      circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends to
      blend the idea of this seaman with that of the ‘naval officer’ who is
      first known to have led the unfortunate into crime.
    

      [For reasons which we shall not specify, but which to many readers will
      appear obvious, we have taken the liberty of here omitting, from the MSS.
      placed in our hands, such portion as details the following up of the
      apparently slight clew obtained by Dupin. We feel it advisable only to
      state, in brief, that the result desired was brought to pass; and that the
      Prefect fulfilled punctually, although with reluctance, the terms of his
      compact with the Chevalier. Mr. Poe’s article concludes with the following
      words.—Eds. (*23)]
    

FOOTNOTES—Marie Rogêt

      (*2) The nom de plume of Von Hardenburg.
    

      (*3) Nassau Street.
    

      (*4) Anderson.
    

      (*5) The Hudson.
    

      (*6) Weehawken.
    

      (*7) Payne.
    

      (*8) Crommelin.
    

      (*9) The New York “Mercury.”
     

      (*10) The New York “Brother Jonathan,” edited by H. Hastings Weld, Esq.
    

      (*11) New York “Journal of Commerce.”
     

      (*12) Philadelphia “Saturday Evening Post,” edited by C. I. Peterson, Esq.
    

      (*13) Adam
    

      (*14) See “Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      (*15) The New York “Commercial Advertiser,” edited by Col. Stone.
    

      (*17) New York “Express”
     

      (*18) New York “Herald.”
     

      (*19) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*21) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*22) New York “Evening Post.”
     