      “Thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced in
      support of the idea that the articles had been ‘for at least three or four
      weeks’ in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any evidence of
      that fact. On the other hand, it is exceedingly difficult to believe that
      these articles could have remained in the thicket specified, for a longer
      period than a single week—for a longer period than from one Sunday
      to the next. Those who know any thing of the vicinity of Paris, know the
      extreme difficulty of finding seclusion unless at a great distance from
      its suburbs. Such a thing as an unexplored, or even an unfrequently
      visited recess, amid its woods or groves, is not for a moment to be
      imagined. Let any one who, being at heart a lover of nature, is yet
      chained by duty to the dust and heat of this great metropolis—let
      any such one attempt, even during the weekdays, to slake his thirst for
      solitude amid the scenes of natural loveliness which immediately surround
      us. At every second step, he will find the growing charm dispelled by the
      voice and personal intrusion of some ruffian or party of carousing
      blackguards. He will seek privacy amid the densest foliage, all in vain.
      Here are the very nooks where the unwashed most abound—here are the
      temples most desecrate. With sickness of the heart the wanderer will flee
      back to the polluted Paris as to a less odious because less incongruous
      sink of pollution. But if the vicinity of the city is so beset during the
      working days of the week, how much more so on the Sabbath! It is now
      especially that, released from the claims of labor, or deprived of the
      customary opportunities of crime, the town blackguard seeks the precincts
      of the town, not through love of the rural, which in his heart he
      despises, but by way of escape from the restraints and conventionalities
      of society. He desires less the fresh air and the green trees, than the
      utter license of the country. Here, at the road-side inn, or beneath the
      foliage of the woods, he indulges, unchecked by any eye except those of
      his boon companions, in all the mad excess of a counterfeit hilarity—the
      joint offspring of liberty and of rum. I say nothing more than what must
      be obvious to every dispassionate observer, when I repeat that the
      circumstance of the articles in question having remained undiscovered, for
      a longer period than from one Sunday to another, in any thicket in
      the immediate neighborhood of Paris, is to be looked upon as little less
      than miraculous.
    

      “But there are not wanting other grounds for the suspicion that the
      articles were placed in the thicket with the view of diverting attention
      from the real scene of the outrage. And, first, let me direct your notice
      to the date of the discovery of the articles. Collate this with the date
      of the fifth extract made by myself from the newspapers. You will find
      that the discovery followed, almost immediately, the urgent communications
      sent to the evening paper. These communications, although various and
      apparently from various sources, tended all to the same point—viz.,
      the directing of attention to a gang as the perpetrators of the outrage,
      and to the neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule as its scene. Now
      here, of course, the suspicion is not that, in consequence of these
      communications, or of the public attention by them directed, the articles
      were found by the boys; but the suspicion might and may well have been,
      that the articles were not before found by the boys, for the reason that
      the articles had not before been in the thicket; having been deposited
      there only at so late a period as at the date, or shortly prior to the
      date of the communication, by the guilty authors of these communications
      themselves.
    

      “This thicket was a singular—an exceedingly singular one. It was
      unusually dense. Within its naturally walled enclosure were three
      extraordinary stones, forming a seat with a back and footstool. And this
      thicket, so full of a natural art, was in the immediate vicinity, within a
      few rods, of the dwelling of Madame Deluc, whose boys were in the habit of
      closely examining the shrubberies about them in search of the bark of the
      sassafras. Would it be a rash wager—a wager of one thousand to one—that
      a day never passed over the heads of these boys without finding at least
      one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall, and enthroned upon its
      natural throne? Those who would hesitate at such a wager, have either
      never been boys themselves, or have forgotten the boyish nature. I repeat—it
      is exceedingly hard to comprehend how the articles could have remained in
      this thicket undiscovered, for a longer period than one or two days; and
      that thus there is good ground for suspicion, in spite of the dogmatic
      ignorance of Le Soleil, that they were, at a comparatively late date,
      deposited where found.
    