      “I say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived. It was only about
      dusk that the indecent haste of these ‘miscreants’ offended the sober eyes
      of Madame Deluc. But we are told that it was upon this very evening that
      Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, ‘heard the screams of a female in
      the vicinity of the inn.’ And in what words does Madame Deluc designate
      the period of the evening at which these screams were heard? ‘It was soon
      after dark,’ she says. But ‘soon after dark,’ is, at least, dark; and
      ‘about dusk’ is as certainly daylight. Thus it is abundantly clear that
      the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams
      overheard (?) by Madame Deluc. And although, in all the many reports of
      the evidence, the relative expressions in question are distinctly and
      invariably employed just as I have employed them in this conversation with
      yourself, no notice whatever of the gross discrepancy has, as yet, been
      taken by any of the public journals, or by any of the myrmidons of police.
    

      “I shall add but one to the arguments against a gang; but this one has, to
      my own understanding at least, a weight altogether irresistible. Under the
      circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any king’s
      evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a
      gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have
      betrayed his accomplices. Each one of a gang so placed, is not so much
      greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal. He
      betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed. That the
      secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is, in
      fact, a secret. The horrors of this dark deed are known only to one, or
      two, living human beings, and to God.
    

      “Let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis. We
      have attained the idea either of a fatal accident under the roof of Madame
      Deluc, or of a murder perpetrated, in the thicket at the Barrière
      du Roule, by a lover, or at least by an intimate and secret associate of
      the deceased. This associate is of swarthy complexion. This complexion,
      the ‘hitch’ in the bandage, and the ‘sailor’s knot,’ with which the
      bonnet-ribbon is tied, point to a seaman. His companionship with the
      deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the
      grade of the common sailor. Here the well written and urgent
      communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration. The
      circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends to
      blend the idea of this seaman with that of the ‘naval officer’ who is
      first known to have led the unfortunate into crime.
    

      (*14) See “Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      (*15) The New York “Commercial Advertiser,” edited by Col. Stone.
    

      (*18) New York “Herald.”
     

      (*19) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*21) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*22) New York “Evening Post.”
     