      “In speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore, I
      have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a boat.
      Now we are to understand that Marie Rogêt was precipitated from a
      boat. This would naturally have been the case. The corpse could not have
      been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore. The peculiar marks on the
      back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat. That
      the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea. If
      thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached. We can only
      account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected the
      precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off. In the act of
      consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have noticed
      his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand. Any risk would
      have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore. Having rid himself
      of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have hastened to the city.
      There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land. But the boat—would
      he have secured it? He would have been in too great haste for such things
      as securing a boat. Moreover, in fastening it to the wharf, he would have
      felt as if securing evidence against himself. His natural thought would
      have been to cast from him, as far as possible, all that had held
      connection with his crime. He would not only have fled from the wharf, but
      he would not have permitted the boat to remain. Assuredly he would have
      cast it adrift. Let us pursue our fancies.—In the morning, the
      wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has
      been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit
      of frequenting —at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him
      to frequent. The next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he
      removes it. Now where is that rudderless boat? Let it be one of our first
      purposes to discover. With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of
      our success shall begin. This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which
      will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of
      the fatal Sabbath. Corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the
      murderer will be traced.”
     

      (*20) Mennais was one of the parties originally suspected and arrested,
      but discharged through total lack of evidence.
    

      (*23) Of the Magazine in which the article was originally published.