“You will say, however, that, in the second instance, there was no
      elopement as imagined. Certainly not—but are we prepared to say that
      there was not the frustrated design? Beyond St. Eustache, and perhaps
      Beauvais, we find no recognized, no open, no honorable suitors of Marie.
      Of none other is there any thing said. Who, then, is the secret lover, of
      whom the relatives (at least most of them) know nothing, but whom Marie
      meets upon the morning of Sunday, and who is so deeply in her confidence,
      that she hesitates not to remain with him until the shades of the evening
      descend, amid the solitary groves of the Barrière du Roule? Who is
      that secret lover, I ask, of whom, at least, most of the relatives know
      nothing? And what means the singular prophecy of Madame Rogêt on
      the morning of Marie’s departure?—‘I fear that I shall never see
      Marie again.’
    

      “But if we cannot imagine Madame Rogêt privy to the design of
      elopement, may we not at least suppose this design entertained by the
      girl? Upon quitting home, she gave it to be understood that she was about
      to visit her aunt in the Rue des Drômes and St. Eustache was
      requested to call for her at dark. Now, at first glance, this fact
      strongly militates against my suggestion;—but let us reflect. That
      she did meet some companion, and proceed with him across the river,
      reaching the Barrière du Roule at so late an hour as three o’clock
      in the afternoon, is known. But in consenting so to accompany this
      individual, (
for whatever purpose—to her mother known or unknown,
)
      she must have thought of her expressed intention when leaving home, and of
      the surprise and suspicion aroused in the bosom of her affianced suitor,
      St. Eustache, when, calling for her, at the hour appointed, in the Rue des
      Drômes, he should find that she had not been there, and when,
      moreover, upon returning to the pension with this alarming intelligence,
      he should become aware of her continued absence from home. She must have
      thought of these things, I say. She must have foreseen the chagrin of St.
      Eustache, the suspicion of all. She could not have thought of returning to
      brave this suspicion; but the suspicion becomes a point of trivial
      importance to her, if we suppose her not intending to return.
    

      “We may imagine her thinking thus—‘I am to meet a certain person for
      the purpose of elopement, or for certain other purposes known only to
      myself. It is necessary that there be no chance of interruption—there
      must be sufficient time given us to elude pursuit—I will give it to
      be understood that I shall visit and spend the day with my aunt at the Rue
      des Drômes—I will tell St. Eustache not to call for me until
      dark—in this way, my absence from home for the longest possible
      period, without causing suspicion or anxiety, will be accounted for, and I
      shall gain more time than in any other manner. If I bid St. Eustache call
      for me at dark, he will be sure not to call before; but, if I wholly
      neglect to bid him call, my time for escape will be diminished, since it
      will be expected that I return the earlier, and my absence will the sooner
      excite anxiety. Now, if it were my design to return at all—if I had
      in contemplation merely a stroll with the individual in question—it
      would not be my policy to bid St. Eustache call; for, calling, he will be
      sure to ascertain that I have played him false—a fact of which I
      might keep him for ever in ignorance, by leaving home without notifying
      him of my intention, by returning before dark, and by then stating that I
      had been to visit my aunt in the Rue des Drômes. But, as it is my
      design never to return—or not for some weeks—or not until
      certain concealments are effected—the gaining of time is the only
      point about which I need give myself any concern.’
    

      “You have observed, in your notes, that the most general opinion in
      relation to this sad affair is, and was from the first, that the girl had
      been the victim of a gang of blackguards. Now, the popular opinion, under
      certain conditions, is not to be disregarded. When arising of itself—when
      manifesting itself in a strictly spontaneous manner—we should look
      upon it as analogous with that 
intuition
 which is the idiosyncrasy
      of the individual man of genius. In ninety-nine cases from the hundred I
      would abide by its decision. But it is important that we find no palpable
      traces of 
suggestion
. The opinion must be rigorously 
the
      public’s own
; and the distinction is often exceedingly difficult to
      perceive and to maintain. In the present instance, it appears to me that
      this ‘public opinion’ in respect to a gang, has been superinduced by the
      collateral event which is detailed in the third of my extracts. All Paris
      is excited by the discovered corpse of Marie, a girl young, beautiful and
      notorious. This corpse is found, bearing marks of violence, and floating
      in the river. But it is now made known that, at the very period, or about
      the very period, in which it is supposed that the girl was assassinated,
      an outrage similar in nature to that endured by the deceased, although
      less in extent, was perpetuated, by a gang of young ruffians, upon the
      person of a second young female. Is it wonderful that the one known
      atrocity should influence the popular judgment in regard to the other
      unknown? This judgment awaited direction, and the known outrage seemed so
      opportunely to afford it! Marie, too, was found in the river; and upon
      this very river was this known outrage committed. The connexion of the two
      events had about it so much of the palpable, that the true wonder would
      have been a failure of the populace to appreciate and to seize it. But, in
      fact, the one atrocity, known to be so committed, is, if any thing,
      evidence that the other, committed at a time nearly coincident, was not so
      committed. It would have been a miracle indeed, if, while a gang of
      ruffians were perpetrating, at a given locality, a most unheard-of wrong,
      there should have been another similar gang, in a similar locality, in the
      same city, under the same circumstances, with the same means and
      appliances, engaged in a wrong of precisely the same aspect, at precisely
      the same period of time! Yet in what, if not in this marvellous train of
      coincidence, does the accidentally suggested opinion of the populace call
      upon us to believe?
    

      “Before proceeding farther, let us consider the supposed scene of the
      assassination, in the thicket at the Barrière du Roule. This
      thicket, although dense, was in the close vicinity of a public road.
      Within were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat with a back
      and footstool. On the upper stone was discovered a white petticoat; on the
      second, a silk scarf. A parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief, were
      also here found. The handkerchief bore the name, ‘Marie Rogêt.’
      Fragments of dress were seen on the branches around. The earth was
      trampled, the bushes were broken, and there was every evidence of a
      violent struggle.
    

      “Notwithstanding the acclamation with which the discovery of this thicket
      was received by the press, and the unanimity with which it was supposed to
      indicate the precise scene of the outrage, it must be admitted that there
      was some very good reason for doubt. That it was the scene, I may or I may
      not believe—but there was excellent reason for doubt. Had the true
      scene been, as Le Commerciel suggested, in the neighborhood of the Rue Pavée
      St. Andrée, the perpetrators of the crime, supposing them still
      resident in Paris, would naturally have been stricken with terror at the
      public attention thus acutely directed into the proper channel; and, in
      certain classes of minds, there would have arisen, at once, a sense of the
      necessity of some exertion to redivert this attention. And thus, the
      thicket of the Barrière du Roule having been already suspected, the
      idea of placing the articles where they were found, might have been
      naturally entertained. There is no real evidence, although Le Soleil so
      supposes, that the articles discovered had been more than a very few days
      in the thicket; while there is much circumstantial proof that they could
      not have remained there, without attracting attention, during the twenty
      days elapsing between the fatal Sunday and the afternoon upon which they
      were found by the boys. ‘They were all 
mildewed
 down hard,’ says Le
      Soleil, adopting the opinions of its predecessors, ‘with the action of the
      rain, and stuck together from 
mildew
. The grass had grown around
      and over some of them. The silk of the parasol was strong, but the threads
      of it were run together within. The upper part, where it had been doubled
      and folded, was all 
mildewed
 and rotten, and tore on being opened.’
      In respect to the grass having ‘grown around and over some of them,’ it is
      obvious that the fact could only have been ascertained from the words, and
      thus from the recollections, of two small boys; for these boys removed the
      articles and took them home before they had been seen by a third party.
      But grass will grow, especially in warm and damp weather, (such as was
      that of the period of the murder,) as much as two or three inches in a
      single day. A parasol lying upon a newly turfed ground, might, in a single
      week, be entirely concealed from sight by the upspringing grass. And
      touching that mildew upon which the editor of Le Soleil so pertinaciously
      insists, that he employs the word no less than three times in the brief
      paragraph just quoted, is he really unaware of the nature of this mildew?
      Is he to be told that it is one of the many classes of fungus, of which
      the most ordinary feature is its upspringing and decadence within
      twenty-four hours?
    

      “Thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced in
      support of the idea that the articles had been ‘for at least three or four
      weeks’ in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any evidence of
      that fact. On the other hand, it is exceedingly difficult to believe that
      these articles could have remained in the thicket specified, for a longer
      period than a single week—for a longer period than from one Sunday
      to the next. Those who know any thing of the vicinity of Paris, know the
      extreme difficulty of finding seclusion unless at a great distance from
      its suburbs. Such a thing as an unexplored, or even an unfrequently
      visited recess, amid its woods or groves, is not for a moment to be
      imagined. Let any one who, being at heart a lover of nature, is yet
      chained by duty to the dust and heat of this great metropolis—let
      any such one attempt, even during the weekdays, to slake his thirst for
      solitude amid the scenes of natural loveliness which immediately surround
      us. At every second step, he will find the growing charm dispelled by the
      voice and personal intrusion of some ruffian or party of carousing
      blackguards. He will seek privacy amid the densest foliage, all in vain.
      Here are the very nooks where the unwashed most abound—here are the
      temples most desecrate. With sickness of the heart the wanderer will flee
      back to the polluted Paris as to a less odious because less incongruous
      sink of pollution. But if the vicinity of the city is so beset during the
      working days of the week, how much more so on the Sabbath! It is now
      especially that, released from the claims of labor, or deprived of the
      customary opportunities of crime, the town blackguard seeks the precincts
      of the town, not through love of the rural, which in his heart he
      despises, but by way of escape from the restraints and conventionalities
      of society. He desires less the fresh air and the green trees, than the
      utter license of the country. Here, at the road-side inn, or beneath the
      foliage of the woods, he indulges, unchecked by any eye except those of
      his boon companions, in all the mad excess of a counterfeit hilarity—the
      joint offspring of liberty and of rum. I say nothing more than what must
      be obvious to every dispassionate observer, when I repeat that the
      circumstance of the articles in question having remained undiscovered, for
      a longer period than from one Sunday to another, in any thicket in
      the immediate neighborhood of Paris, is to be looked upon as little less
      than miraculous.
    

      “But there are not wanting other grounds for the suspicion that the
      articles were placed in the thicket with the view of diverting attention
      from the real scene of the outrage. And, first, let me direct your notice
      to the date of the discovery of the articles. Collate this with the date
      of the fifth extract made by myself from the newspapers. You will find
      that the discovery followed, almost immediately, the urgent communications
      sent to the evening paper. These communications, although various and
      apparently from various sources, tended all to the same point—viz.,
      the directing of attention to a gang as the perpetrators of the outrage,
      and to the neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule as its scene. Now
      here, of course, the suspicion is not that, in consequence of these
      communications, or of the public attention by them directed, the articles
      were found by the boys; but the suspicion might and may well have been,
      that the articles were not before found by the boys, for the reason that
      the articles had not before been in the thicket; having been deposited
      there only at so late a period as at the date, or shortly prior to the
      date of the communication, by the guilty authors of these communications
      themselves.
    

      “This thicket was a singular—an exceedingly singular one. It was
      unusually dense. Within its naturally walled enclosure were three
      extraordinary stones, forming a seat with a back and footstool. And this
      thicket, so full of a natural art, was in the immediate vicinity, within a
      few rods, of the dwelling of Madame Deluc, whose boys were in the habit of
      closely examining the shrubberies about them in search of the bark of the
      sassafras. Would it be a rash wager—a wager of one thousand to one—that
      a day never passed over the heads of these boys without finding at least
      one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall, and enthroned upon its
      natural throne? Those who would hesitate at such a wager, have either
      never been boys themselves, or have forgotten the boyish nature. I repeat—it
      is exceedingly hard to comprehend how the articles could have remained in
      this thicket undiscovered, for a longer period than one or two days; and
      that thus there is good ground for suspicion, in spite of the dogmatic
      ignorance of Le Soleil, that they were, at a comparatively late date,
      deposited where found.
    

      “But there are still other and stronger reasons for believing them so
      deposited, than any which I have as yet urged. And, now, let me beg your
      notice to the highly artificial arrangement of the articles. On the 
upper

      stone lay a white petticoat; on the 
second
, a silk scarf; scattered around,
      were a parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief bearing the name, ‘Marie
      Rogêt.’ Here is just such an arrangement as would naturally be made
      by a not over-acute person wishing to dispose the articles naturally. But
      it is by no means a really natural arrangement. I should rather have
      looked to see the things all lying on the ground and trampled under foot.
      In the narrow limits of that bower, it would have been scarcely possible
      that the petticoat and scarf should have retained a position upon the
      stones, when subjected to the brushing to and fro of many struggling
      persons. ‘There was evidence,’ it is said, ‘of a struggle; and the earth
      was trampled, the bushes were broken,’—but the petticoat and the
      scarf are found deposited as if upon shelves. ‘The pieces of the frock
      torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long.
      One part was the hem of the frock and it had been mended. They looked like
      strips torn off.’ Here, inadvertently, Le Soleil has employed an
      exceedingly suspicious phrase. The pieces, as described, do indeed ‘look
      like strips torn off;’ but purposely and by hand. It is one of the rarest
      of accidents that a piece is ‘torn off,’ from any garment such as is now
      in question, by the agency of a thorn. From the very nature of such
      fabrics, a thorn or nail becoming entangled in them, tears them
      rectangularly—divides them into two longitudinal rents, at right
      angles with each other, and meeting at an apex where the thorn enters—but
      it is scarcely possible to conceive the piece ‘torn off.’ I never so knew
      it, nor did you. To tear a piece off from such fabric, two distinct
      forces, in different directions, will be, in almost every case, required.
      If there be two edges to the fabric—if, for example, it be a
      pocket-handkerchief, and it is desired to tear from it a slip, then, and
      then only, will the one force serve the purpose. But in the present case
      the question is of a dress, presenting but one edge. To tear a piece from
      the interior, where no edge is presented, could only be effected by a
      miracle through the agency of thorns, and no one thorn could accomplish
      it. But, even where an edge is presented, two thorns will be necessary,
      operating, the one in two distinct directions, and the other in one. And
      this in the supposition that the edge is unhemmed. If hemmed, the matter
      is nearly out of the question. We thus see the numerous and great
      obstacles in the way of pieces being ‘torn off’ through the simple agency
      of ‘thorns;’ yet we are required to believe not only that one piece but
      that many have been so torn. ‘And one part,’ too, ‘was the hem of the
      frock!’ Another piece was ‘part of the skirt, not the hem,’—that is
      to say, was torn completely out through the agency of thorns, from the
      uncaged interior of the dress! These, I say, are things which one may well
      be pardoned for disbelieving; yet, taken collectedly, they form, perhaps,
      less of reasonable ground for suspicion, than the one startling
      circumstance of the articles’ having been left in this thicket at all, by
      any murderers who had enough precaution to think of removing the corpse.
      You will not have apprehended me rightly, however, if you suppose it my
      design to deny this thicket as the scene of the outrage. There might have
      been a wrong here, or, more possibly, an accident at Madame Deluc’s. But,
      in fact, this is a point of minor importance. We are not engaged in an
      attempt to discover the scene, but to produce the perpetrators of the
      murder. What I have adduced, notwithstanding the minuteness with which I
      have adduced it, has been with the view, first, to show the folly of the
      positive and headlong assertions of Le Soleil, but secondly and chiefly,
      to bring you, by the most natural route, to a further contemplation of the
      doubt whether this assassination has, or has not, been the work of a gang.
    

      “We will resume this question by mere allusion to the revolting details of
      the surgeon examined at the inquest. It is only necessary to say that his
      published inferences, in regard to the number of ruffians, have been
      properly ridiculed as unjust and totally baseless, by all the reputable
      anatomists of Paris. Not that the matter might not have been as inferred,
      but that there was no ground for the inference:—was there not much
      for another?
    

      “Let us reflect now upon ‘the traces of a struggle;’ and let me ask what
      these traces have been supposed to demonstrate. A gang. But do they not
      rather demonstrate the absence of a gang? What struggle could have taken
      place—what struggle so violent and so enduring as to have left its
      ‘traces’ in all directions—between a weak and defenceless girl and
      the gang of ruffians imagined? The silent grasp of a few rough arms and
      all would have been over. The victim must have been absolutely passive at
      their will. You will here bear in mind that the arguments urged against
      the thicket as the scene, are applicable in chief part, only against it as
      the scene of an outrage committed by more than a single individual. If we
      imagine but one violator, we can conceive, and thus only conceive, the
      struggle of so violent and so obstinate a nature as to have left the
      ‘traces’ apparent.