      For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be
      considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases
      might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting
      thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an
      error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at
      length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result
      enormously at variance with truth. And, in regard to the former branch, we
      must not fail to hold in view that the very Calculus of Probabilities to
      which I have referred, forbids all idea of the extension of the parallel—forbids
      it with a positiveness strong and decided just in proportion as this
      parallel has already been long-drawn and exact. This is one of those
      anomalous propositions which, seemingly appealing to thought altogether
      apart from the mathematical, is yet one which only the mathematician can
      fully entertain. Nothing, for example, is more difficult than to convince
      the merely general reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice
      in succession by a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the
      largest odds that sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt. A
      suggestion to this effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once. It
      does not appear that the two throws which have been completed, and which
      lie now absolutely in the Past, can have influence upon the throw which
      exists only in the Future. The chance for throwing sixes seems to be
      precisely as it was at any ordinary time—that is to say, subject
      only to the influence of the various other throws which may be made by the
      dice. And this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that
      attempts to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive
      smile than with anything like respectful attention. The error here
      involved—a gross error redolent of mischief—I cannot pretend
      to expose within the limits assigned me at present; and with the
      philosophical it needs no exposure. It may be sufficient here to say that
      it forms one of an infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of
      Reason through her propensity for seeking truth in detail.
    

      (*1) Upon the original publication of “Marie Roget,” the foot-notes now
      appended were considered unnecessary; but the lapse of several years since
      the tragedy upon which the tale is based, renders it expedient to give
      them, and also to say a few words in explanation of the general design. A
      young girl, Mary Cecilia Rogers, was murdered in the vicinity of New York;
      and, although her death occasioned an intense and long-enduring
      excitement, the mystery attending it had remained unsolved at the period
      when the present paper was written and published (November, 1842). Herein,
      under pretence of relating the fate of a Parisian grisette, the author has
      followed in minute detail, the essential, while merely paralleling the
      inessential facts of the real murder of Mary Rogers. Thus all argument
      founded upon the fiction is applicable to the truth: and the investigation
      of the truth was the object. The “Mystery of Marie Roget” was composed at
      a distance from the scene of the atrocity, and with no other means of
      investigation than the newspapers afforded. Thus much escaped the writer
      of which he could have availed himself had he been upon the spot, and
      visited the localities. It may not be improper to record, nevertheless,
      that the confessions of two persons, (one of them the Madame Deluc of the
      narrative) made, at different periods, long subsequent to the publication,
      confirmed, in full, not only the general conclusion, but absolutely all
      the chief hypothetical details by which that conclusion was attained.
    