      “And what means are ours, of attaining the truth? We shall find these
      means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed. Let us sift to
      the bottom this affair of the first elopement. Let us know the full
      history of ‘the officer,’ with his present circumstances, and his
      whereabouts at the precise period of the murder. Let us carefully compare
      with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in
      which the object was to inculpate a gang. This done, let us compare these
      communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the
      morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the
      guilt of Mennais. And, all this done, let us again compare these various
      communications with the known MSS. of the officer. Let us endeavor to
      ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well
      as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal
      appearance and bearing of the ‘man of dark complexion.’ Queries, skilfully
      directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information
      on this particular point (or upon others)—information which the
      parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing. And let us now
      trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of Monday the
      twenty-third of June, and which was removed from the barge-office, without
      the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at
      some period prior to the discovery of the corpse. With a proper caution
      and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the
      bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand. The
      rudder of a sail-boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by
      one altogether at ease in heart. And here let me pause to insinuate a
      question. There was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat. It
      was silently taken to the barge-office, and as silently removed. But its
      owner or employer—how happened he, at so early a period as Tuesday
      morning, to be informed, without the agency of advertisement, of the
      locality of the boat taken up on Monday, unless we imagine some connexion
      with the navy—some personal permanent connexion leading to
      cognizance of its minute in interests—its petty local news?
    

      I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences. And
      farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the
      unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of
      one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has
      existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the
      reason becomes embarrassed. I say all this will be seen. But let it not
      for a moment be supposed that, in proceeding with the sad narrative of
      Marie from the epoch just mentioned, and in tracing to its dénouement
      the mystery which enshrouded her, it is my covert design to hint at an
      extension of the parallel, or even to suggest that the measures adopted in
      Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette, or measures founded
      in any similar ratiocination, would produce any similar result.
    