“And again. I have already mentioned the suspicion to be excited by the
      fact that the articles in question were suffered to remain at all in the
      thicket where discovered. It seems almost impossible that these evidences
      of guilt should have been accidentally left where found. There was
      sufficient presence of mind (it is supposed) to remove the corpse; and yet
      a more positive evidence than the corpse itself (whose features might have
      been quickly obliterated by decay,) is allowed to lie conspicuously in the
      scene of the outrage—I allude to the handkerchief with the name of
      the deceased. If this was accident, it was not the accident of a gang. We
      can imagine it only the accident of an individual. Let us see. An
      individual has committed the murder. He is alone with the ghost of the
      departed. He is appalled by what lies motionless before him. The fury of
      his passion is over, and there is abundant room in his heart for the
      natural awe of the deed. His is none of that confidence which the presence
      of numbers inevitably inspires. He is alone with the dead. He trembles and
      is bewildered. Yet there is a necessity for disposing of the corpse. He
      bears it to the river, but leaves behind him the other evidences of guilt;
      for it is difficult, if not impossible to carry all the burthen at once,
      and it will be easy to return for what is left. But in his toilsome
      journey to the water his fears redouble within him. The sounds of life
      encompass his path. A dozen times he hears or fancies the step of an
      observer. Even the very lights from the city bewilder him. Yet, in time
      and by long and frequent pauses of deep agony, he reaches the river’s
      brink, and disposes of his ghastly charge—perhaps through the medium
      of a boat. But now what treasure does the world hold—what threat of
      vengeance could it hold out—which would have power to urge the
      return of that lonely murderer over that toilsome and perilous path, to
      the thicket and its blood chilling recollections? He returns not, let the
      consequences be what they may. He could not return if he would. His sole
      thought is immediate escape. He turns his back forever upon those dreadful
      shrubberies and flees as from the wrath to come.
    

      “But how with a gang? Their number would have inspired them with
      confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the
      arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed gangs
      ever constituted. Their number, I say, would have prevented the
      bewildering and unreasoning terror which I have imagined to paralyze the
      single man. Could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this
      oversight would have been remedied by a fourth. They would have left
      nothing behind them; for their number would have enabled them to carry all
      at once. There would have been no need of return.
    

      “Consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse
      when found, ‘a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the
      bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured by
      a sort of hitch in the back.’ This was done with the obvious design of
      affording a handle by which to carry the body. But would any number of men
      have dreamed of resorting to such an expedient? To three or four, the
      limbs of the corpse would have afforded not only a sufficient, but the
      best possible hold. The device is that of a single individual; and this
      brings us to the fact that ‘between the thicket and the river, the rails
      of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident traces of
      some heavy burden having been dragged along it!’ But would a number of men
      have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking down a fence, for
      the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they might have lifted
      over any fence in an instant? Would a number of men have so dragged a
      corpse at all as to have left evident traces of the dragging?
    

      “And here we must refer to an observation of Le Commerciel; an observation
      upon which I have already, in some measure, commented. ‘A piece,’ says
      this journal, ‘of one of the unfortunate girl’s petticoats was torn out
      and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to
      prevent screams. This was done by fellows who had no
      pocket-handkerchiefs.’
    

      “I have before suggested that a genuine blackguard is never without a
      pocket-handkerchief. But it is not to this fact that I now especially
      advert. That it was not through want of a handkerchief for the purpose
      imagined by Le Commerciel, that this bandage was employed, is rendered
      apparent by the handkerchief left in the thicket; and that the object was
      not ‘to prevent screams’ appears, also, from the bandage having been
      employed in preference to what would so much better have answered the
      purpose. But the language of the evidence speaks of the strip in question
      as ‘found around the neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a hard knot.’
      These words are sufficiently vague, but differ materially from those of Le
      Commerciel. The slip was eighteen inches wide, and therefore, although of
      muslin, would form a strong band when folded or rumpled longitudinally.
      And thus rumpled it was discovered. My inference is this. The solitary
      murderer, having borne the corpse, for some distance (whether from the
      thicket or elsewhere) by means of the bandage hitched around its middle,
      found the weight, in this mode of procedure, too much for his strength. He
      resolved to drag the burthen—the evidence goes to show that it was
      dragged. With this object in view, it became necessary to attach something
      like a rope to one of the extremities. It could be best attached about the
      neck, where the head would prevent its slipping off. And, now, the
      murderer bethought him, unquestionably, of the bandage about the loins. He
      would have used this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch
      which embarrassed it, and the reflection that it had not been ‘torn off’
      from the garment. It was easier to tear a new slip from the petticoat. He
      tore it, made it fast about the neck, and so dragged his victim to the
      brink of the river. That this ‘bandage,’ only attainable with trouble and
      delay, and but imperfectly answering its purpose—that this bandage
      was employed at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment
      sprang from circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no
      longer attainable—that is to say, arising, as we have imagined,
      after quitting the thicket, (if the thicket it was), and on the road
      between the thicket and the river.
    

      “But the evidence, you will say, of Madame Deluc (!) points especially to
      the presence of a gang, in the vicinity of the thicket, at or about the
      epoch of the murder. This I grant. I doubt if there were not a dozen
      gangs, such as described by Madame Deluc, in and about the vicinity of the
      Barrière du Roule at or about the period of this tragedy. But the
      gang which has drawn upon itself the pointed animadversion, although the
      somewhat tardy and very suspicious evidence of Madame Deluc, is the only
      gang which is represented by that honest and scrupulous old lady as having
      eaten her cakes and swallowed her brandy, without putting themselves to
      the trouble of making her payment. Et hinc illæ iræ?
    

      “But what is the precise evidence of Madame Deluc? ‘A gang of miscreants
      made their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making
      payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the
      inn about dusk, and recrossed the river as if in great haste.’
    

      “Now this ‘great haste’ very possibly seemed greater haste in the eyes of
      Madame Deluc, since she dwelt lingeringly and lamentingly upon her
      violated cakes and ale—cakes and ale for which she might still have
      entertained a faint hope of compensation. Why, otherwise, since it was
      about dusk, should she make a point of the haste? It is no cause for
      wonder, surely, that even a gang of blackguards should make haste to get
      home, when a wide river is to be crossed in small boats, when storm
      impends, and when night approaches.
    

      “I say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived. It was only about
      dusk that the indecent haste of these ‘miscreants’ offended the sober eyes
      of Madame Deluc. But we are told that it was upon this very evening that
      Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, ‘heard the screams of a female in
      the vicinity of the inn.’ And in what words does Madame Deluc designate
      the period of the evening at which these screams were heard? ‘It was soon
      after dark,’ she says. But ‘soon after dark,’ is, at least, dark; and
      ‘about dusk’ is as certainly daylight. Thus it is abundantly clear that
      the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams
      overheard (?) by Madame Deluc. And although, in all the many reports of
      the evidence, the relative expressions in question are distinctly and
      invariably employed just as I have employed them in this conversation with
      yourself, no notice whatever of the gross discrepancy has, as yet, been
      taken by any of the public journals, or by any of the myrmidons of police.
    

      “I shall add but one to the arguments against a gang; but this one has, to
      my own understanding at least, a weight altogether irresistible. Under the
      circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any king’s
      evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a
      gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have
      betrayed his accomplices. Each one of a gang so placed, is not so much
      greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal. He
      betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed. That the
      secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is, in
      fact, a secret. The horrors of this dark deed are known only to one, or
      two, living human beings, and to God.
    

      “Let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis. We
      have attained the idea either of a fatal accident under the roof of Madame
      Deluc, or of a murder perpetrated, in the thicket at the Barrière
      du Roule, by a lover, or at least by an intimate and secret associate of
      the deceased. This associate is of swarthy complexion. This complexion,
      the ‘hitch’ in the bandage, and the ‘sailor’s knot,’ with which the
      bonnet-ribbon is tied, point to a seaman. His companionship with the
      deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the
      grade of the common sailor. Here the well written and urgent
      communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration. The
      circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends to
      blend the idea of this seaman with that of the ‘naval officer’ who is
      first known to have led the unfortunate into crime.
    

      “And here, most fitly, comes the consideration of the continued absence of
      him of the dark complexion. Let me pause to observe that the complexion of
      this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness which
      constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards Valence and
      Madame Deluc. But why is this man absent? Was he murdered by the gang? If
      so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl? The scene of the
      two outrages will naturally be supposed identical. And where is his
      corpse? The assassins would most probably have disposed of both in the
      same way. But it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from
      making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder. This
      consideration might be supposed to operate upon him now—at this late
      period—since it has been given in evidence that he was seen with
      Marie—but it would have had no force at the period of the deed. The
      first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce the outrage,
      and to aid in identifying the ruffians. This policy would have suggested.
      He had been seen with the girl. He had crossed the river with her in an
      open ferry-boat. The denouncing of the assassins would have appeared, even
      to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving himself from
      suspicion. We cannot suppose him, on the night of the fatal Sunday, both
      innocent himself and incognizant of an outrage committed. Yet only under
      such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he would have failed, if
      alive, in the denouncement of the assassins.
    

      “And what means are ours, of attaining the truth? We shall find these
      means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed. Let us sift to
      the bottom this affair of the first elopement. Let us know the full
      history of ‘the officer,’ with his present circumstances, and his
      whereabouts at the precise period of the murder. Let us carefully compare
      with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in
      which the object was to inculpate a gang. This done, let us compare these
      communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the
      morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the
      guilt of Mennais. And, all this done, let us again compare these various
      communications with the known MSS. of the officer. Let us endeavor to
      ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well
      as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal
      appearance and bearing of the ‘man of dark complexion.’ Queries, skilfully
      directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information
      on this particular point (or upon others)—information which the
      parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing. And let us now
      trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of Monday the
      twenty-third of June, and which was removed from the barge-office, without
      the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at
      some period prior to the discovery of the corpse. With a proper caution
      and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the
      bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand. The
      rudder of a sail-boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by
      one altogether at ease in heart. And here let me pause to insinuate a
      question. There was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat. It
      was silently taken to the barge-office, and as silently removed. But its
      owner or employer—how happened he, at so early a period as Tuesday
      morning, to be informed, without the agency of advertisement, of the
      locality of the boat taken up on Monday, unless we imagine some connexion
      with the navy—some personal permanent connexion leading to
      cognizance of its minute in interests—its petty local news?
    

      “In speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore, I
      have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a boat.
      Now we are to understand that Marie Rogêt was precipitated from a
      boat. This would naturally have been the case. The corpse could not have
      been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore. The peculiar marks on the
      back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat. That
      the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea. If
      thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached. We can only
      account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected the
      precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off. In the act of
      consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have noticed
      his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand. Any risk would
      have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore. Having rid himself
      of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have hastened to the city.
      There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land. But the boat—would
      he have secured it? He would have been in too great haste for such things
      as securing a boat. Moreover, in fastening it to the wharf, he would have
      felt as if securing evidence against himself. His natural thought would
      have been to cast from him, as far as possible, all that had held
      connection with his crime. He would not only have fled from the wharf, but
      he would not have permitted the boat to remain. Assuredly he would have
      cast it adrift. Let us pursue our fancies.—In the morning, the
      wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has
      been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit
      of frequenting —at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him
      to frequent. The next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he
      removes it. Now where is that rudderless boat? Let it be one of our first
      purposes to discover. With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of
      our success shall begin. This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which
      will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of
      the fatal Sabbath. Corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the
      murderer will be traced.”
     

      [For reasons which we shall not specify, but which to many readers will
      appear obvious, we have taken the liberty of here omitting, from the MSS.
      placed in our hands, such portion as details the following up of the
      apparently slight clew obtained by Dupin. We feel it advisable only to
      state, in brief, that the result desired was brought to pass; and that the
      Prefect fulfilled punctually, although with reluctance, the terms of his
      compact with the Chevalier. Mr. Poe’s article concludes with the following
      words.—Eds. (*23)]
    

      It will be understood that I speak of coincidences and no more. What I
      have said above upon this topic must suffice. In my own heart there dwells
      no faith in præter-nature. That Nature and its God are two, no man
      who thinks, will deny. That the latter, creating the former, can, at will,
      control or modify it, is also unquestionable. I say “at will;” for the
      question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of
      power. It is not that the Deity cannot modify his laws, but that we insult
      him in imagining a possible necessity for modification. In their origin
      these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in
      the Future. With God all is Now.
    

      I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences. And
      farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the
      unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of
      one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has
      existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the
      reason becomes embarrassed. I say all this will be seen. But let it not
      for a moment be supposed that, in proceeding with the sad narrative of
      Marie from the epoch just mentioned, and in tracing to its dénouement
      the mystery which enshrouded her, it is my covert design to hint at an
      extension of the parallel, or even to suggest that the measures adopted in
      Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette, or measures founded
      in any similar ratiocination, would produce any similar result.
    

      For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be
      considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases
      might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting
      thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an
      error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at
      length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result
      enormously at variance with truth. And, in regard to the former branch, we
      must not fail to hold in view that the very Calculus of Probabilities to
      which I have referred, forbids all idea of the extension of the parallel—forbids
      it with a positiveness strong and decided just in proportion as this
      parallel has already been long-drawn and exact. This is one of those
      anomalous propositions which, seemingly appealing to thought altogether
      apart from the mathematical, is yet one which only the mathematician can
      fully entertain. Nothing, for example, is more difficult than to convince
      the merely general reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice
      in succession by a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the
      largest odds that sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt. A
      suggestion to this effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once. It
      does not appear that the two throws which have been completed, and which
      lie now absolutely in the Past, can have influence upon the throw which
      exists only in the Future. The chance for throwing sixes seems to be
      precisely as it was at any ordinary time—that is to say, subject
      only to the influence of the various other throws which may be made by the
      dice. And this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that
      attempts to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive
      smile than with anything like respectful attention. The error here
      involved—a gross error redolent of mischief—I cannot pretend
      to expose within the limits assigned me at present; and with the
      philosophical it needs no exposure. It may be sufficient here to say that
      it forms one of an infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of
      Reason through her propensity for seeking truth in detail.
    

FOOTNOTES—Marie Rogêt

      (*1) Upon the original publication of “Marie Roget,” the foot-notes now
      appended were considered unnecessary; but the lapse of several years since
      the tragedy upon which the tale is based, renders it expedient to give
      them, and also to say a few words in explanation of the general design. A
      young girl, Mary Cecilia Rogers, was murdered in the vicinity of New York;
      and, although her death occasioned an intense and long-enduring
      excitement, the mystery attending it had remained unsolved at the period
      when the present paper was written and published (November, 1842). Herein,
      under pretence of relating the fate of a Parisian grisette, the author has
      followed in minute detail, the essential, while merely paralleling the
      inessential facts of the real murder of Mary Rogers. Thus all argument
      founded upon the fiction is applicable to the truth: and the investigation
      of the truth was the object. The “Mystery of Marie Roget” was composed at
      a distance from the scene of the atrocity, and with no other means of
      investigation than the newspapers afforded. Thus much escaped the writer
      of which he could have availed himself had he been upon the spot, and
      visited the localities. It may not be improper to record, nevertheless,
      that the confessions of two persons, (one of them the Madame Deluc of the
      narrative) made, at different periods, long subsequent to the publication,
      confirmed, in full, not only the general conclusion, but absolutely all
      the chief hypothetical details by which that conclusion was attained.
    

      (*2) The nom de plume of Von Hardenburg.
    

      (*3) Nassau Street.
    

      (*4) Anderson.
    

      (*5) The Hudson.
    

      (*6) Weehawken.
    

      (*7) Payne.
    

      (*8) Crommelin.
    

      (*9) The New York “Mercury.”
     

      (*10) The New York “Brother Jonathan,” edited by H. Hastings Weld, Esq.
    

      (*11) New York “Journal of Commerce.”
     

      (*12) Philadelphia “Saturday Evening Post,” edited by C. I. Peterson, Esq.
    

      (*13) Adam
    

      (*14) See “Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
     

      (*15) The New York “Commercial Advertiser,” edited by Col. Stone.
    

      (*16) “A theory based on the qualities of an object, will prevent its
      being unfolded according to its objects; and he who arranges topics in
      reference to their causes, will cease to value them according to their
      results. Thus the jurisprudence of every nation will show that, when law
      becomes a science and a system, it ceases to be justice. The errors into
      which a blind devotion to principles of classification has led the common
      law, will be seen by observing how often the legislature has been obliged
      to come forward to restore the equity its scheme had lost.”—Landor.
    

      (*17) New York “Express”
     

      (*18) New York “Herald.”
     

      (*19) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*20) Mennais was one of the parties originally suspected and arrested,
      but discharged through total lack of evidence.
    

      (*21) New York “Courier and Inquirer.”
     

      (*22) New York “Evening Post.”
     

      (*23) Of the Magazine in which the article was originally published.