THE BALLOON-HOAX

[Astounding News by Express, 
via
 Norfolk!—The Atlantic crossed in
Three Days!  Signal Triumph of Mr. Monck Mason’s Flying
Machine!—Arrival at Sullivan’s Island, near Charlestown, S.C., of
Mr. Mason, Mr. Robert Holland, Mr. Henson, Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, and four
others, in the Steering Balloon, “Victoria,” after a passage of
Seventy-five Hours from Land to Land!  Full Particulars of the Voyage!

    The subjoined 
jeu d’esprit
 with the preceding heading in
magnificent capitals, well interspersed with notes of admiration, was
originally published, as matter of fact, in the “New York Sun,” a
daily newspaper, and therein fully subserved the purpose of creating
indigestible aliment for the 
quidnuncs
 during the few hours intervening
between a couple of the Charleston mails.  The rush for the “sole paper
which had the news,” was something beyond even the prodigious;  and, in
fact, if (as some assert) the “Victoria” 
did
 not absolutely
accomplish the voyage recorded, it will be difficult to assign a reason why she

should
 not have accomplished it.]

      The great problem is at length solved! The air, as well as the earth and
      the ocean, has been subdued by science, and will become a common and
      convenient highway for mankind. 
The Atlantic has been actually crossed
      in a Balloon!
 and this too without difficulty—without any great
      apparent danger—with thorough control of the machine—and in
      the inconceivably brief period of seventy-five hours from shore to shore!
      By the energy of an agent at Charleston, S.C., we are enabled to be the
      first to furnish the public with a detailed account of this most
      extraordinary voyage, which was performed between Saturday, the 6th
      instant, at 11, A.M., and 2, P.M., on Tuesday, the 9th instant, by Sir
      Everard Bringhurst; Mr. Osborne, a nephew of Lord Bentinck’s; Mr. Monck
      Mason and Mr. Robert Holland, the well-known æronauts; Mr. Harrison
      Ainsworth, author of “Jack Sheppard,” &c.; and Mr. Henson, the
      projector of the late unsuccessful flying machine—with two seamen
      from Woolwich—in all, eight persons. The particulars furnished below
      may be relied on as authentic and accurate in every respect, as, with a
      slight exception, they are copied 
verbatim
 from the joint diaries
      of Mr. Monck Mason and Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, to whose politeness our
      agent is also indebted for much verbal information respecting the balloon
      itself, its construction, and other matters of interest. The only
      alteration in the MS. received, has been made for the purpose of throwing
      the hurried account of our agent, Mr. Forsyth, into a connected and
      intelligible form.
    

      “THE BALLOON.
    

      “Two very decided failures, of late—those of Mr. Henson and Sir
      George Cayley—had much weakened the public interest in the subject
      of aerial navigation. Mr. Henson’s scheme (which at first was considered
      very feasible even by men of science,) was founded upon the principle of
      an inclined plane, started from an eminence by an extrinsic force, applied
      and continued by the revolution of impinging vanes, in form and number
      resembling the vanes of a windmill. But, in all the experiments made with
      models at the Adelaide Gallery, it was found that the operation of these
      fans not only did not propel the machine, but actually impeded its flight.
      The only propelling force it ever exhibited, was the mere 
impetus

      acquired from the descent of the inclined plane; and this 
impetus

      carried the machine farther when the vanes were at rest, than when they
      were in motion—a fact which sufficiently demonstrates their
      inutility; and in the absence of the propelling, which was also the 
sustaining

      power, the whole fabric would necessarily descend. This consideration led
      Sir George Cayley to think only of adapting a propeller to some machine
      having of itself an independent power of support—in a word, to a
      balloon; the idea, however, being novel, or original, with Sir George,
      only so far as regards the mode of its application to practice. He
      exhibited a model of his invention at the Polytechnic Institution. The
      propelling principle, or power, was here, also, applied to interrupted
      surfaces, or vanes, put in revolution. These vanes were four in number,
      but were found entirely ineffectual in moving the balloon, or in aiding
      its ascending power. The whole project was thus a complete failure.
    

      “It was at this juncture that Mr. Monck Mason (whose voyage from Dover to
      Weilburg in the balloon, “Nassau,” occasioned so much excitement in 1837,)
      conceived the idea of employing the principle of the Archimedean screw for
      the purpose of propulsion through the air—rightly attributing the
      failure of Mr. Henson’s scheme, and of Sir George Cayley’s, to the
      interruption of surface in the independent vanes. He made the first public
      experiment at Willis’s Rooms, but afterward removed his model to the
      Adelaide Gallery.
    

      “Like Sir George Cayley’s balloon, his own was an ellipsoid. Its length
      was thirteen feet six inches—height, six feet eight inches. It
      contained about three hundred and twenty cubic feet of gas, which, if pure
      hydrogen, would support twenty-one pounds upon its first inflation, before
      the gas has time to deteriorate or escape. The weight of the whole machine
      and apparatus was seventeen pounds—leaving about four pounds to
      spare. Beneath the centre of the balloon, was a frame of light wood, about
      nine feet long, and rigged on to the balloon itself with a network in the
      customary manner. From this framework was suspended a wicker basket or
      car.
    

      “The screw consists of an axis of hollow brass tube, eighteen inches in
      length, through which, upon a semi-spiral inclined at fifteen degrees,
      pass a series of steel wire radii, two feet long, and thus projecting a
      foot on either side. These radii are connected at the outer extremities by
      two bands of flattened wire—the whole in this manner forming the
      framework of the screw, which is completed by a covering of oiled silk cut
      into gores, and tightened so as to present a tolerably uniform surface. At
      each end of its axis this screw is supported by pillars of hollow brass
      tube descending from the hoop. In the lower ends of these tubes are holes
      in which the pivots of the axis revolve. From the end of the axis which is
      next the car, proceeds a shaft of steel, connecting the screw with the
      pinion of a piece of spring machinery fixed in the car. By the operation
      of this spring, the screw is made to revolve with great rapidity,
      communicating a progressive motion to the whole. By means of the rudder,
      the machine was readily turned in any direction. The spring was of great
      power, compared with its dimensions, being capable of raising forty-five
      pounds upon a barrel of four inches diameter, after the first turn, and
      gradually increasing as it was wound up. It weighed, altogether, eight
      pounds six ounces. The rudder was a light frame of cane covered with silk,
      shaped somewhat like a battle-door, and was about three feet long, and at
      the widest, one foot. Its weight was about two ounces. It could be turned
      
flat
, and directed upwards or downwards, as well as to the right or
      left; and thus enabled the æronaut to transfer the resistance of
      the air which in an inclined position it must generate in its passage, to
      any side upon which he might desire to act; thus determining the balloon
      in the opposite direction.
    

      “This model (which, through want of time, we have necessarily described in
      an imperfect manner,) was put in action at the Adelaide Gallery, where it
      accomplished a velocity of five miles per hour; although, strange to say,
      it excited very little interest in comparison with the previous complex
      machine of Mr. Henson—so resolute is the world to despise anything
      which carries with it an air of simplicity. To accomplish the great
      desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very generally supposed
      that some exceedingly complicated application must be made of some
      unusually profound principle in dynamics.
    

      “So well satisfied, however, was Mr. Mason of the ultimate success of his
      invention, that he determined to construct immediately, if possible, a
      balloon of sufficient capacity to test the question by a voyage of some
      extent—the original design being to cross the British Channel, as
      before, in the Nassau balloon. To carry out his views, he solicited and
      obtained the patronage of Sir Everard Bringhurst and Mr. Osborne, two
      gentlemen well known for scientific acquirement, and especially for the
      interest they have exhibited in the progress of ærostation. The
      project, at the desire of Mr. Osborne, was kept a profound secret from the
      public—the only persons entrusted with the design being those
      actually engaged in the construction of the machine, which was built
      (under the superintendence of Mr. Mason, Mr. Holland, Sir Everard
      Bringhurst, and Mr. Osborne,) at the seat of the latter gentleman near
      Penstruthal, in Wales. Mr. Henson, accompanied by his friend Mr.
      Ainsworth, was admitted to a private view of the balloon, on Saturday last—when
      the two gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure.
      We are not informed for what reason the two seamen were also included in
      the party—but, in the course of a day or two, we shall put our
      readers in possession of the minutest particulars respecting this
      extraordinary voyage.
    

      “The balloon is composed of silk, varnished with the liquid gum
      caoutchouc. It is of vast dimensions, containing more than 40,000 cubic
      feet of gas; but as coal gas was employed in place of the more expensive
      and inconvenient hydrogen, the supporting power of the machine, when fully
      inflated, and immediately after inflation, is not more than about 2500
      pounds. The coal gas is not only much less costly, but is easily procured
      and managed.
    

      “For its introduction into common use for purposes of aerostation, we are
      indebted to Mr. Charles Green. Up to his discovery, the process of
      inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain. Two, and even
      three days, have frequently been wasted in futile attempts to procure a
      sufficiency of hydrogen to fill a balloon, from which it had great
      tendency to escape, owing to its extreme subtlety, and its affinity for
      the surrounding atmosphere. In a balloon sufficiently perfect to retain
      its contents of coal-gas unaltered, in quantity or amount, for six months,
      an equal quantity of hydrogen could not be maintained in equal purity for
      six weeks.
    

      “The supporting power being estimated at 2500 pounds, and the united
      weights of the party amounting only to about 1200, there was left a
      surplus of 1300, of which again 1200 was exhausted by ballast, arranged in
      bags of different sizes, with their respective weights marked upon them—by
      cordage, barometers, telescopes, barrels containing provision for a
      fortnight, water-casks, cloaks, carpet-bags, and various other
      indispensable matters, including a coffee-warmer, contrived for warming
      coffee by means of slack-lime, so as to dispense altogether with fire, if
      it should be judged prudent to do so. All these articles, with the
      exception of the ballast, and a few trifles, were suspended from the hoop
      overhead. The car is much smaller and lighter, in proportion, than the one
      appended to the model. It is formed of a light wicker, and is wonderfully
      strong, for so frail looking a machine. Its rim is about four feet deep.
      The rudder is also very much larger, in proportion, than that of the
      model; and the screw is considerably smaller. The balloon is furnished
      besides with a grapnel, and a guide-rope; which latter is of the most
      indispensable importance. A few words, in explanation, will here be
      necessary for such of our readers as are not conversant with the details
      of aerostation.
    

      “As soon as the balloon quits the earth, it is subjected to the influence
      of many circumstances tending to create a difference in its weight;
      augmenting or diminishing its ascending power. For example, there may be a
      deposition of dew upon the silk, to the extent, even, of several hundred
      pounds; ballast has then to be thrown out, or the machine may descend.
      This ballast being discarded, and a clear sunshine evaporating the dew,
      and at the same time expanding the gas in the silk, the whole will again
      rapidly ascend. To check this ascent, the only recourse is, (or rather 
was
,
      until Mr. Green’s invention of the guide-rope,) the permission of the
      escape of gas from the valve; but, in the loss of gas, is a proportionate
      general loss of ascending power; so that, in a comparatively brief period,
      the best-constructed balloon must necessarily exhaust all its resources,
      and come to the earth. This was the great obstacle to voyages of length.
    

      “The guide-rope remedies the difficulty in the simplest manner
      conceivable. It is merely a very long rope which is suffered to trail from
      the car, and the effect of which is to prevent the balloon from changing
      its level in any material degree. If, for example, there should be a
      deposition of moisture upon the silk, and the machine begins to descend in
      consequence, there will be no necessity for discharging ballast to remedy
      the increase of weight, for it is remedied, or counteracted, in an exactly
      just proportion, by the deposit on the ground of just so much of the end
      of the rope as is necessary. If, on the other hand, any circumstances
      should cause undue levity, and consequent ascent, this levity is
      immediately counteracted by the additional weight of rope upraised from
      the earth. Thus, the balloon can neither ascend or descend, except within
      very narrow limits, and its resources, either in gas or ballast, remain
      comparatively unimpaired. When passing over an expanse of water, it
      becomes necessary to employ small kegs of copper or wood, filled with
      liquid ballast of a lighter nature than water. These float, and serve all
      the purposes of a mere rope on land. Another most important office of the
      guide-rope, is to point out the 
direction
 of the balloon. The rope
      
drags
, either on land or sea, while the balloon is free; the
      latter, consequently, is always in advance, when any progress whatever is
      made: a comparison, therefore, by means of the compass, of the relative
      positions of the two objects, will always indicate the 
course
. In
      the same way, the angle formed by the rope with the vertical axis of the
      machine, indicates the 
velocity
. When there is 
no
 angle—in
      other words, when the rope hangs perpendicularly, the whole apparatus is
      stationary; but the larger the angle, that is to say, the farther the
      balloon precedes the end of the rope, the greater the velocity; and the
      converse.
    

      “As the original design was to cross the British Channel, and alight as
      near Paris as possible, the voyagers had taken the precaution to prepare
      themselves with passports directed to all parts of the Continent,
      specifying the nature of the expedition, as in the case of the Nassau
      voyage, and entitling the adventurers to exemption from the usual
      formalities of office: unexpected events, however, rendered these
      passports superfluous.