      “This model (which, through want of time, we have necessarily described in
      an imperfect manner,) was put in action at the Adelaide Gallery, where it
      accomplished a velocity of five miles per hour; although, strange to say,
      it excited very little interest in comparison with the previous complex
      machine of Mr. Henson—so resolute is the world to despise anything
      which carries with it an air of simplicity. To accomplish the great
      desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very generally supposed
      that some exceedingly complicated application must be made of some
      unusually profound principle in dynamics.
    

      “So well satisfied, however, was Mr. Mason of the ultimate success of his
      invention, that he determined to construct immediately, if possible, a
      balloon of sufficient capacity to test the question by a voyage of some
      extent—the original design being to cross the British Channel, as
      before, in the Nassau balloon. To carry out his views, he solicited and
      obtained the patronage of Sir Everard Bringhurst and Mr. Osborne, two
      gentlemen well known for scientific acquirement, and especially for the
      interest they have exhibited in the progress of ærostation. The
      project, at the desire of Mr. Osborne, was kept a profound secret from the
      public—the only persons entrusted with the design being those
      actually engaged in the construction of the machine, which was built
      (under the superintendence of Mr. Mason, Mr. Holland, Sir Everard
      Bringhurst, and Mr. Osborne,) at the seat of the latter gentleman near
      Penstruthal, in Wales. Mr. Henson, accompanied by his friend Mr.
      Ainsworth, was admitted to a private view of the balloon, on Saturday last—when
      the two gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure.
      We are not informed for what reason the two seamen were also included in
      the party—but, in the course of a day or two, we shall put our
      readers in possession of the minutest particulars respecting this
      extraordinary voyage.
    

      “The balloon is composed of silk, varnished with the liquid gum
      caoutchouc. It is of vast dimensions, containing more than 40,000 cubic
      feet of gas; but as coal gas was employed in place of the more expensive
      and inconvenient hydrogen, the supporting power of the machine, when fully
      inflated, and immediately after inflation, is not more than about 2500
      pounds. The coal gas is not only much less costly, but is easily procured
      and managed.
    

      “For its introduction into common use for purposes of aerostation, we are
      indebted to Mr. Charles Green. Up to his discovery, the process of
      inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain. Two, and even
      three days, have frequently been wasted in futile attempts to procure a
      sufficiency of hydrogen to fill a balloon, from which it had great
      tendency to escape, owing to its extreme subtlety, and its affinity for
      the surrounding atmosphere. In a balloon sufficiently perfect to retain
      its contents of coal-gas unaltered, in quantity or amount, for six months,
      an equal quantity of hydrogen could not be maintained in equal purity for
      six weeks.
    

      “As the original design was to cross the British Channel, and alight as
      near Paris as possible, the voyagers had taken the precaution to prepare
      themselves with passports directed to all parts of the Continent,
      specifying the nature of the expedition, as in the case of the Nassau
      voyage, and entitling the adventurers to exemption from the usual
      formalities of office: unexpected events, however, rendered these
      passports superfluous.