The steel rod connecting the
      spring with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car
      end, (by a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two
      seamen we had taken up,) and in an instant hung dangling out of reach,
      from the pivot of the axis of the screw. While we were endeavoring to
      regain it, our attention being completely absorbed, we became involved in
      a strong current of wind from the East, which bore us, with rapidly
      increasing force, towards the Atlantic. We soon found ourselves driving
      out to sea at the rate of not less, certainly, than fifty or sixty miles
      an hour, so that we came up with Cape Clear, at some forty miles to our
      North, before we had secured the rod, and had time to think what we were
      about. Ainsworth made an extraordinary, but to my
      fancy, a by no means unreasonable or chimerical proposition, in which he
      was instantly seconded by Mr. Holland—viz.: that we should take
      advantage of the strong gale which bore us on, and in place of beating
      back to Paris, make an attempt to reach the coast of North America. After
      slight reflection I gave a willing assent to this bold proposition, which
      (strange to say) met with objection from the two seamen only. We steered due West; but as the trailing of the buoys
      materially impeded our progress, and we had the balloon abundantly at
      command, either for ascent or descent, we first threw out fifty pounds of
      ballast, and then wound up (by means of a windlass) so much of the rope as
      brought it quite clear of the sea. We perceived the effect of this
      manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and, as the
      gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the
      guide-rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel. It is
      needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of the
      coast. We passed over innumerable vessels of all kinds, a few of which
      were endeavoring to beat up, but the most of them lying to. We occasioned
      the greatest excitement on board all—an excitement greatly relished
      by ourselves, and especially by our two men, who, now under the influence
      of a dram of Geneva, seemed resolved to give all scruple, or fear, to the
      wind. Many of the vessels fired signal guns; and in all we were saluted
      with loud cheers (which we heard with surprising distinctness) and the
      waving of caps and handkerchiefs. We kept on in this manner throughout the
      day, with no material incident, and, as the shades of night closed around
      us, we made a rough estimate of the distance traversed. It could not have
      been less than five hundred miles, and was probably much more. The
      propeller was kept in constant operation, and, no doubt, aided our
      progress materially. As the sun went down, the gale freshened into an
      absolute hurricane, and the ocean beneath was clearly visible on account
      of its phosphorescence. The wind was from the East all night, and gave us
      the brightest omen of success. We suffered no little from cold, and the
      dampness of the atmosphere was most unpleasant; but the ample space in the
      car enabled us to lie down, and by means of cloaks and a few blankets, we
      did sufficiently well.
    