      “P.S. (by Mr. Ainsworth.) The last nine hours have been unquestionably the
      most exciting of my life. I can conceive nothing more sublimating than the
      strange peril and novelty of an adventure such as this. May God grant that
      we succeed! I ask not success for mere safety to my insignificant person,
      but for the sake of human knowledge and—for the vastness of the
      triumph. And yet the feat is only so evidently feasible that the sole
      wonder is why men have scrupled to attempt it before. One single gale such
      as now befriends us—let such a tempest whirl forward a balloon for
      four or five days (these gales often last longer) and the voyager will be
      easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast. In view of such a gale
      the broad Atlantic becomes a mere lake. I am more struck, just now, with
      the supreme silence which reigns in the sea beneath us, notwithstanding
      its agitation, than with any other phenomenon presenting itself. The
      waters give up no voice to the heavens. The immense flaming ocean writhes
      and is tortured uncomplainingly. The mountainous surges suggest the idea
      of innumerable dumb gigantic fiends struggling in impotent agony. In a
      night such as is this to me, a man 
lives
—lives a whole
      century of ordinary life—nor would I forego this rapturous delight
      for that of a whole century of ordinary existence.
    

      “
Sunday, the seventh
. [Mr. Mason’s MS.] This morning the gale, by
      10, had subsided to an eight or nine—knot breeze, (for a vessel at
      sea,) and bears us, perhaps, thirty miles per hour, or more. It has
      veered, however, very considerably to the north; and now, at sundown, we
      are holding our course due west, principally by the screw and rudder,
      which answer their purposes to admiration. I regard the project as
      thoroughly successful, and the easy navigation of the air in any direction
      (not exactly in the teeth of a gale) as no longer problematical. We could
      not have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by
      ascending, we might have got out of its influence, if requisite. Against a
      pretty stiff breeze, I feel convinced, we can make our way with the
      propeller. At noon, to-day, ascended to an elevation of nearly 25,000
      feet, by discharging ballast. Did this to search for a more direct
      current, but found none so favorable as the one we are now in. We have an
      abundance of gas to take us across this small pond, even should the voyage
      last three weeks. I have not the slightest fear for the result. The
      difficulty has been strangely exaggerated and misapprehended. I can choose
      my current, and should I find 
all
 currents against me, I can make
      very tolerable headway with the propeller. We have had no incidents worth
      recording. The night promises fair.
    

      P.S. [By Mr. Ainsworth.] I have little to record, except the fact (to me
      quite a surprising one) that, at an elevation equal to that of Cotopaxi, I
      experienced neither very intense cold, nor headache, nor difficulty of
      breathing; neither, I find, did Mr. Mason, nor Mr. Holland, nor Sir
      Everard. Mr. Osborne complained of constriction of the chest—but
      this soon wore off. We have flown at a great rate during the day, and we
      must be more than half way across the Atlantic. We have passed over some
      twenty or thirty vessels of various kinds, and all seem to be delightfully
      astonished. Crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so difficult a feat
      after all. 
Omne ignotum pro magnifico. Mem:
 at 25,000 feet
      elevation the sky appears nearly black, and the stars are distinctly
      visible; while the sea does not seem convex (as one might suppose) but
      absolutely and most unequivocally 
concave
.(*1)
    

      “
Monday, the 8th
. [Mr. Mason’s MS.] This morning we had again some
      little trouble with the rod of the propeller, which must be entirely
      remodelled, for fear of serious accident—I mean the steel rod—not
      the vanes. The latter could not be improved. The wind has been blowing
      steadily and strongly from the north-east all day and so far fortune seems
      bent upon favoring us. Just before day, we were all somewhat alarmed at
      some odd noises and concussions in the balloon, accompanied with the
      apparent rapid subsidence of the whole machine. These phenomena were
      occasioned by the expansion of the gas, through increase of heat in the
      atmosphere, and the consequent disruption of the minute particles of ice
      with which the network had become encrusted during the night. Threw down
      several bottles to the vessels below. Saw one of them picked up by a large
      ship—seemingly one of the New York line packets. Endeavored to make
      out her name, but could not be sure of it. Mr. Osborne’s telescope made it
      out something like “Atalanta.” It is now 12, at night, and we are still
      going nearly west, at a rapid pace. The sea is peculiarly phosphorescent.
    

      “
Tuesday, the
 9
th
. [Mr. Ainsworth’s MS.] 
One, P.M. We are
      in full view of the low coast of South Carolina
. The great problem is
      accomplished. We have crossed the Atlantic—fairly and 
easily

      crossed it in a balloon! God be praised! Who shall say that anything is
      impossible hereafter?”
     

      The Journal here ceases. Some particulars of the descent were
      communicated, however, by Mr. Ainsworth to Mr. Forsyth. It was nearly dead
      calm when the voyagers first came in view of the coast, which was
      immediately recognized by both the seamen, and by Mr. Osborne. The latter
      gentleman having acquaintances at Fort Moultrie, it was immediately
      resolved to descend in its vicinity. The balloon was brought over the
      beach (the tide being out and the sand hard, smooth, and admirably adapted
      for a descent,) and the grapnel let go, which took firm hold at once. The
      inhabitants of the island, and of the fort, thronged out, of course, to
      see the balloon; but it was with the greatest difficulty that any one
      could be made to credit the actual voyage—
the crossing of the
      Atlantic
. The grapnel caught at 2, P.M., precisely; and thus the whole
      voyage was completed in seventy-five hours; or rather less, counting from
      shore to shore. No serious accident occurred. No real danger was at any
      time apprehended. The balloon was exhausted and secured without trouble;
      and when the MS. from which this narrative is compiled was despatched from
      Charleston, the party were still at Fort Moultrie. Their farther
      intentions were not ascertained; but we can safely promise our readers
      some additional information either on Monday or in the course of the next
      day, at farthest.
    

      This is unquestionably the most stupendous, the most interesting, and the
      most important undertaking, ever accomplished or even attempted by man.
      What magnificent events may ensue, it would be useless now to think of
      determining.
    

      (*1) 
Note
.—Mr. Ainsworth has not attempted to account for
      this phenomenon, which, however, is quite susceptible of explanation. A
      line dropped from an elevation of 25,000 feet, perpendicularly to the
      surface of the earth (or sea), would form the perpendicular of a
      right-angled triangle, of which the base would extend from the right angle
      to the horizon, and the hypothenuse from the horizon to the balloon. But
      the 25,000 feet of altitude is little or nothing, in comparison with the
      extent of the prospect. In other words, the base and hypothenuse of the
      supposed triangle would be so long when compared with the perpendicular,
      that the two former may be regarded as nearly parallel. In this manner the
      horizon of the æronaut would appear to be 
on a level
 with
      the car. But, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a
      great distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance
      below the horizon. Hence the impression of 
concavity
; and this
      impression must remain, until the elevation shall bear so great a
      proportion to the extent of prospect, that the apparent parallelism of the
      base and hypothenuse disappears—when the earth’s real convexity must
      become apparent.