“The inflation was commenced very quietly at daybreak, on Saturday
      morning, the 6th instant, in the Court-Yard of Weal-Vor House, Mr.
      Osborne’s seat, about a mile from Penstruthal, in North Wales; and at 7
      minutes past 11, every thing being ready for departure, the balloon was
      set free, rising gently but steadily, in a direction nearly South; no use
      being made, for the first half hour, of either the screw or the rudder. We
      proceed now with the journal, as transcribed by Mr. Forsyth from the joint
      MSS. of Mr. Monck Mason, and Mr. Ainsworth. The body of the journal, as
      given, is in the hand-writing of Mr. Mason, and a P. S. is appended, each
      day, by Mr. Ainsworth, who has in preparation, and will shortly give the
      public a more minute, and no doubt, a thrillingly interesting account of
      the voyage.
    

      “THE JOURNAL.
    

      “
Saturday, April the 6th
.—Every preparation likely to
      embarrass us, having been made over night, we commenced the inflation this
      morning at daybreak; but owing to a thick fog, which encumbered the folds
      of the silk and rendered it unmanageable, we did not get through before
      nearly eleven o’clock. Cut loose, then, in high spirits, and rose gently
      but steadily, with a light breeze at North, which bore us in the direction
      of the British Channel. Found the ascending force greater than we had
      expected; and as we arose higher and so got clear of the cliffs, and more
      in the sun’s rays, our ascent became very rapid. I did not wish, however,
      to lose gas at so early a period of the adventure, and so concluded to
      ascend for the present. We soon ran out our guide-rope; but even when we
      had raised it clear of the earth, we still went up very rapidly. The
      balloon was unusually steady, and looked beautifully. In about ten minutes
      after starting, the barometer indicated an altitude of 15,000 feet. The
      weather was remarkably fine, and the view of the subjacent country—a
      most romantic one when seen from any point,—was now especially
      sublime. The numerous deep gorges presented the appearance of lakes, on
      account of the dense vapors with which they were filled, and the pinnacles
      and crags to the South East, piled in inextricable confusion, resembling
      nothing so much as the giant cities of eastern fable. We were rapidly
      approaching the mountains in the South; but our elevation was more than
      sufficient to enable us to pass them in safety. In a few minutes we soared
      over them in fine style; and Mr. Ainsworth, with the seamen, was surprised
      at their apparent want of altitude when viewed from the car, the tendency
      of great elevation in a balloon being to reduce inequalities of the
      surface below, to nearly a dead level. At half-past eleven still
      proceeding nearly South, we obtained our first view of the Bristol
      Channel; and, in fifteen minutes afterward, the line of breakers on the
      coast appeared immediately beneath us, and we were fairly out at sea. We
      now resolved to let off enough gas to bring our guide-rope, with the buoys
      affixed, into the water. This was immediately done, and we commenced a
      gradual descent. In about twenty minutes our first buoy dipped, and at the
      touch of the second soon afterwards, we remained stationary as to
      elevation. We were all now anxious to test the efficiency of the rudder
      and screw, and we put them both into requisition forthwith, for the
      purpose of altering our direction more to the eastward, and in a line for
      Paris. By means of the rudder we instantly effected the necessary change
      of direction, and our course was brought nearly at right angles to that of
      the wind; when we set in motion the spring of the screw, and were rejoiced
      to find it propel us readily as desired. Upon this we gave nine hearty
      cheers, and dropped in the sea a bottle, enclosing a slip of parchment
      with a brief account of the principle of the invention. Hardly, however,
      had we done with our rejoicings, when an unforeseen accident occurred
      which discouraged us in no little degree. The steel rod connecting the
      spring with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car
      end, (by a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two
      seamen we had taken up,) and in an instant hung dangling out of reach,
      from the pivot of the axis of the screw. While we were endeavoring to
      regain it, our attention being completely absorbed, we became involved in
      a strong current of wind from the East, which bore us, with rapidly
      increasing force, towards the Atlantic. We soon found ourselves driving
      out to sea at the rate of not less, certainly, than fifty or sixty miles
      an hour, so that we came up with Cape Clear, at some forty miles to our
      North, before we had secured the rod, and had time to think what we were
      about. It was now that Mr. Ainsworth made an extraordinary, but to my
      fancy, a by no means unreasonable or chimerical proposition, in which he
      was instantly seconded by Mr. Holland—viz.: that we should take
      advantage of the strong gale which bore us on, and in place of beating
      back to Paris, make an attempt to reach the coast of North America. After
      slight reflection I gave a willing assent to this bold proposition, which
      (strange to say) met with objection from the two seamen only. As the
      stronger party, however, we overruled their fears, and kept resolutely
      upon our course. We steered due West; but as the trailing of the buoys
      materially impeded our progress, and we had the balloon abundantly at
      command, either for ascent or descent, we first threw out fifty pounds of
      ballast, and then wound up (by means of a windlass) so much of the rope as
      brought it quite clear of the sea. We perceived the effect of this
      manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and, as the
      gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the
      guide-rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel. It is
      needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of the
      coast. We passed over innumerable vessels of all kinds, a few of which
      were endeavoring to beat up, but the most of them lying to. We occasioned
      the greatest excitement on board all—an excitement greatly relished
      by ourselves, and especially by our two men, who, now under the influence
      of a dram of Geneva, seemed resolved to give all scruple, or fear, to the
      wind. Many of the vessels fired signal guns; and in all we were saluted
      with loud cheers (which we heard with surprising distinctness) and the
      waving of caps and handkerchiefs. We kept on in this manner throughout the
      day, with no material incident, and, as the shades of night closed around
      us, we made a rough estimate of the distance traversed. It could not have
      been less than five hundred miles, and was probably much more. The
      propeller was kept in constant operation, and, no doubt, aided our
      progress materially. As the sun went down, the gale freshened into an
      absolute hurricane, and the ocean beneath was clearly visible on account
      of its phosphorescence. The wind was from the East all night, and gave us
      the brightest omen of success. We suffered no little from cold, and the
      dampness of the atmosphere was most unpleasant; but the ample space in the
      car enabled us to lie down, and by means of cloaks and a few blankets, we
      did sufficiently well.
    

      “P.S. (by Mr. Ainsworth.) The last nine hours have been unquestionably the
      most exciting of my life. I can conceive nothing more sublimating than the
      strange peril and novelty of an adventure such as this. May God grant that
      we succeed! I ask not success for mere safety to my insignificant person,
      but for the sake of human knowledge and—for the vastness of the
      triumph. And yet the feat is only so evidently feasible that the sole
      wonder is why men have scrupled to attempt it before. One single gale such
      as now befriends us—let such a tempest whirl forward a balloon for
      four or five days (these gales often last longer) and the voyager will be
      easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast. In view of such a gale
      the broad Atlantic becomes a mere lake. I am more struck, just now, with
      the supreme silence which reigns in the sea beneath us, notwithstanding
      its agitation, than with any other phenomenon presenting itself. The
      waters give up no voice to the heavens. The immense flaming ocean writhes
      and is tortured uncomplainingly. The mountainous surges suggest the idea
      of innumerable dumb gigantic fiends struggling in impotent agony. In a
      night such as is this to me, a man 
lives
—lives a whole
      century of ordinary life—nor would I forego this rapturous delight
      for that of a whole century of ordinary existence.
    

      “
Sunday, the seventh
. [Mr. Mason’s MS.] This morning the gale, by
      10, had subsided to an eight or nine—knot breeze, (for a vessel at
      sea,) and bears us, perhaps, thirty miles per hour, or more. It has
      veered, however, very considerably to the north; and now, at sundown, we
      are holding our course due west, principally by the screw and rudder,
      which answer their purposes to admiration. I regard the project as
      thoroughly successful, and the easy navigation of the air in any direction
      (not exactly in the teeth of a gale) as no longer problematical. We could
      not have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by
      ascending, we might have got out of its influence, if requisite. Against a
      pretty stiff breeze, I feel convinced, we can make our way with the
      propeller. At noon, to-day, ascended to an elevation of nearly 25,000
      feet, by discharging ballast. Did this to search for a more direct
      current, but found none so favorable as the one we are now in. We have an
      abundance of gas to take us across this small pond, even should the voyage
      last three weeks. I have not the slightest fear for the result. The
      difficulty has been strangely exaggerated and misapprehended. I can choose
      my current, and should I find 
all
 currents against me, I can make
      very tolerable headway with the propeller. We have had no incidents worth
      recording. The night promises fair.
    

      P.S. [By Mr. Ainsworth.] I have little to record, except the fact (to me
      quite a surprising one) that, at an elevation equal to that of Cotopaxi, I
      experienced neither very intense cold, nor headache, nor difficulty of
      breathing; neither, I find, did Mr. Mason, nor Mr. Holland, nor Sir
      Everard. Mr. Osborne complained of constriction of the chest—but
      this soon wore off. We have flown at a great rate during the day, and we
      must be more than half way across the Atlantic. We have passed over some
      twenty or thirty vessels of various kinds, and all seem to be delightfully
      astonished. Crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so difficult a feat
      after all. 
Omne ignotum pro magnifico. Mem:
 at 25,000 feet
      elevation the sky appears nearly black, and the stars are distinctly
      visible; while the sea does not seem convex (as one might suppose) but
      absolutely and most unequivocally 
concave
.(*1)
    

      “
Monday, the 8th
. [Mr. Mason’s MS.] This morning we had again some
      little trouble with the rod of the propeller, which must be entirely
      remodelled, for fear of serious accident—I mean the steel rod—not
      the vanes. The latter could not be improved. The wind has been blowing
      steadily and strongly from the north-east all day and so far fortune seems
      bent upon favoring us. Just before day, we were all somewhat alarmed at
      some odd noises and concussions in the balloon, accompanied with the
      apparent rapid subsidence of the whole machine. These phenomena were
      occasioned by the expansion of the gas, through increase of heat in the
      atmosphere, and the consequent disruption of the minute particles of ice
      with which the network had become encrusted during the night. Threw down
      several bottles to the vessels below. Saw one of them picked up by a large
      ship—seemingly one of the New York line packets. Endeavored to make
      out her name, but could not be sure of it. Mr. Osborne’s telescope made it
      out something like “Atalanta.” It is now 12, at night, and we are still
      going nearly west, at a rapid pace. The sea is peculiarly phosphorescent.
    

      “P.S. [By Mr. Ainsworth.] It is now 2, A.M., and nearly calm, as well as I
      can judge—but it is very difficult to determine this point, since we
      move 
with
 the air so completely. I have not slept since quitting
      Wheal-Vor, but can stand it no longer, and must take a nap. We cannot be
      far from the American coast.
    

      “
Tuesday, the
 9
th
. [Mr. Ainsworth’s MS.] 
One, P.M. We are
      in full view of the low coast of South Carolina
. The great problem is
      accomplished. We have crossed the Atlantic—fairly and 
easily

      crossed it in a balloon! God be praised! Who shall say that anything is
      impossible hereafter?”
     

      The Journal here ceases. Some particulars of the descent were
      communicated, however, by Mr. Ainsworth to Mr. Forsyth. It was nearly dead
      calm when the voyagers first came in view of the coast, which was
      immediately recognized by both the seamen, and by Mr. Osborne. The latter
      gentleman having acquaintances at Fort Moultrie, it was immediately
      resolved to descend in its vicinity. The balloon was brought over the
      beach (the tide being out and the sand hard, smooth, and admirably adapted
      for a descent,) and the grapnel let go, which took firm hold at once. The
      inhabitants of the island, and of the fort, thronged out, of course, to
      see the balloon; but it was with the greatest difficulty that any one
      could be made to credit the actual voyage—
the crossing of the
      Atlantic
. The grapnel caught at 2, P.M., precisely; and thus the whole
      voyage was completed in seventy-five hours; or rather less, counting from
      shore to shore. No serious accident occurred. No real danger was at any
      time apprehended. The balloon was exhausted and secured without trouble;
      and when the MS. from which this narrative is compiled was despatched from
      Charleston, the party were still at Fort Moultrie. Their farther
      intentions were not ascertained; but we can safely promise our readers
      some additional information either on Monday or in the course of the next
      day, at farthest.
    

      This is unquestionably the most stupendous, the most interesting, and the
      most important undertaking, ever accomplished or even attempted by man.
      What magnificent events may ensue, it would be useless now to think of
      determining.
    

      (*1) 
Note
.—Mr. Ainsworth has not attempted to account for
      this phenomenon, which, however, is quite susceptible of explanation. A
      line dropped from an elevation of 25,000 feet, perpendicularly to the
      surface of the earth (or sea), would form the perpendicular of a
      right-angled triangle, of which the base would extend from the right angle
      to the horizon, and the hypothenuse from the horizon to the balloon. But
      the 25,000 feet of altitude is little or nothing, in comparison with the
      extent of the prospect. In other words, the base and hypothenuse of the
      supposed triangle would be so long when compared with the perpendicular,
      that the two former may be regarded as nearly parallel. In this manner the
      horizon of the æronaut would appear to be 
on a level
 with
      the car. But, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a
      great distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance
      below the horizon. Hence the impression of 
concavity
; and this
      impression must remain, until the elevation shall bear so great a
      proportion to the extent of prospect, that the apparent parallelism of the
      base and hypothenuse disappears—when the earth’s real convexity must
      become apparent.