MS. FOUND IN A BOTTLE

Qui n’a plus qu’un moment a vivre

N’a plus rien a dissimuler.

—Quinault—Atys.

      Of my country and of my family I have little to say. Ill usage and length
      of years have driven me from the one, and estranged me from the other.
      Hereditary wealth afforded me an education of no common order, and a
      contemplative turn of mind enabled me to methodize the stores which early
      study very diligently garnered up.—Beyond all things, the study of
      the German moralists gave me great delight; not from any ill-advised
      admiration of their eloquent madness, but from the ease with which my
      habits of rigid thought enabled me to detect their falsities. I have often
      been reproached with the aridity of my genius; a deficiency of imagination
      has been imputed to me as a crime; and the Pyrrhonism of my opinions has
      at all times rendered me notorious. Indeed, a strong relish for physical
      philosophy has, I fear, tinctured my mind with a very common error of this
      age—I mean the habit of referring occurrences, even the least
      susceptible of such reference, to the principles of that science. Upon the
      whole, no person could be less liable than myself to be led away from the
      severe precincts of truth by the ignes fatui of superstition. I have
      thought proper to premise thus much, lest the incredible tale I have to
      tell should be considered rather the raving of a crude imagination, than
      the positive experience of a mind to which the reveries of fancy have been
      a dead letter and a nullity.
    

      After many years spent in foreign travel, I sailed in the year 18— ,
      from the port of Batavia, in the rich and populous island of Java, on a
      voyage to the Archipelago of the Sunda islands. I went as passenger—having
      no other inducement than a kind of nervous restlessness which haunted me
      as a fiend.
    

      Our vessel was a beautiful ship of about four hundred tons,
      copper-fastened, and built at Bombay of Malabar teak. She was freighted
      with cotton-wool and oil, from the Lachadive islands. We had also on board
      coir, jaggeree, ghee, cocoa-nuts, and a few cases of opium. The stowage
      was clumsily done, and the vessel consequently crank.
    

      We got under way with a mere breath of wind, and for many days stood along
      the eastern coast of Java, without any other incident to beguile the
      monotony of our course than the occasional meeting with some of the small
      grabs of the Archipelago to which we were bound.
    

      One evening, leaning over the taffrail, I observed a very singular,
      isolated cloud, to the N.W. It was remarkable, as well for its color, as
      from its being the first we had seen since our departure from Batavia. I
      watched it attentively until sunset, when it spread all at once to the
      eastward and westward, girting in the horizon with a narrow strip of
      vapor, and looking like a long line of low beach. My notice was soon
      afterwards attracted by the dusky-red appearance of the moon, and the
      peculiar character of the sea. The latter was undergoing a rapid change,
      and the water seemed more than usually transparent. Although I could
      distinctly see the bottom, yet, heaving the lead, I found the ship in
      fifteen fathoms. The air now became intolerably hot, and was loaded with
      spiral exhalations similar to those arising from heat iron. As night came
      on, every breath of wind died away, an more entire calm it is impossible
      to conceive. The flame of a candle burned upon the poop without the least
      perceptible motion, and a long hair, held between the finger and thumb,
      hung without the possibility of detecting a vibration. However, as the
      captain said he could perceive no indication of danger, and as we were
      drifting in bodily to shore, he ordered the sails to be furled, and the
      anchor let go. No watch was set, and the crew, consisting principally of
      Malays, stretched themselves deliberately upon deck. I went below—not
      without a full presentiment of evil. Indeed, every appearance warranted me
      in apprehending a Simoom. I told the captain my fears; but he paid no
      attention to what I said, and left me without deigning to give a reply. My
      uneasiness, however, prevented me from sleeping, and about midnight I went
      upon deck. As I placed my foot upon the upper step of the
      companion-ladder, I was startled by a loud, humming noise, like that
      occasioned by the rapid revolution of a mill-wheel, and before I could
      ascertain its meaning, I found the ship quivering to its centre. In the
      next instant, a wilderness of foam hurled us upon our beam-ends, and,
      rushing over us fore and aft, swept the entire decks from stem to stern.
    

      The extreme fury of the blast proved, in a great measure, the salvation of
      the ship. Although completely water-logged, yet, as her masts had gone by
      the board, she rose, after a minute, heavily from the sea, and, staggering
      awhile beneath the immense pressure of the tempest, finally righted.
    

      By what miracle I escaped destruction, it is impossible to say. Stunned by
      the shock of the water, I found myself, upon recovery, jammed in between
      the stern-post and rudder. With great difficulty I gained my feet, and
      looking dizzily around, was, at first, struck with the idea of our being
      among breakers; so terrific, beyond the wildest imagination, was the
      whirlpool of mountainous and foaming ocean within which we were engulfed.
      After a while, I heard the voice of an old Swede, who had shipped with us
      at the moment of our leaving port. I hallooed to him with all my strength,
      and presently he came reeling aft. We soon discovered that we were the
      sole survivors of the accident. All on deck, with the exception of
      ourselves, had been swept overboard;—the captain and mates must have
      perished as they slept, for the cabins were deluged with water. Without
      assistance, we could expect to do little for the security of the ship, and
      our exertions were at first paralyzed by the momentary expectation of
      going down. Our cable had, of course, parted like pack-thread, at the
      first breath of the hurricane, or we should have been instantaneously
      overwhelmed. We scudded with frightful velocity before the sea, and the
      water made clear breaches over us. The frame-work of our stern was
      shattered excessively, and, in almost every respect, we had received
      considerable injury; but to our extreme joy we found the pumps unchoked,
      and that we had made no great shifting of our ballast. The main fury of
      the blast had already blown over, and we apprehended little danger from
      the violence of the wind; but we looked forward to its total cessation
      with dismay; well believing, that, in our shattered condition, we should
      inevitably perish in the tremendous swell which would ensue. But this very
      just apprehension seemed by no means likely to be soon verified. For five
      entire days and nights—during which our only subsistence was a small
      quantity of jaggeree, procured with great difficulty from the forecastle—the
      hulk flew at a rate defying computation, before rapidly succeeding flaws
      of wind, which, without equalling the first violence of the Simoom, were
      still more terrific than any tempest I had before encountered. Our course
      for the first four days was, with trifling variations, S.E. and by S.; and
      we must have run down the coast of New Holland. On the fifth day the
      cold became extreme, although the wind had hauled round a point more to
      the northward. The sun arose with a sickly yellow lustre, and
      clambered a very few degrees above the horizon—emitting no decisive
      light. There were no clouds apparent, yet the wind was upon the
      increase, and blew with a fitful and unsteady fury. About noon, as nearly
      as we could guess, our attention was again arrested by the appearance of
      the sun. It gave out no light, properly so called, but a dull and sullen
      glow without reflection, as if all its rays were polarized. Just before
      sinking within the turgid sea, its central fires suddenly went out, as if
      hurriedly extinguished by some unaccountable power. It was a dim,
      sliver-like rim, alone, as it rushed down the unfathomable ocean.
    

      We waited in vain for the arrival of the sixth day—that day to me
      has not yet arrived—to the Swede, never did arrive. Thenceforward we
      were enshrouded in patchy darkness, so that we could not have seen an
      object at twenty paces from the ship. Eternal night continued to envelop
      us, all unrelieved by the phosphoric sea-brilliancy to which we had been
      accustomed in the tropics. We observed too, that, although the tempest
      continued to rage with unabated violence, there was no longer to be
      discovered the usual appearance of surf, or foam, which had hitherto
      attended us. All around were horror, and thick gloom, and a black
      sweltering desert of ebony. Superstitious terror crept by degrees
      into the spirit of the old Swede, and my own soul was wrapped up in silent
      wonder. We neglected all care of the ship, as worse than useless, and
      securing ourselves, as well as possible, to the stump of the mizen-mast,
      looked out bitterly into the world of ocean. We had no means of
      calculating time, nor could we form any guess of our situation. We were,
      however, well aware of having made farther to the southward than any
      previous navigators, and felt great amazement at not meeting with the
      usual impediments of ice. In the meantime every moment threatened to be
      our last—every mountainous billow hurried to overwhelm us. The swell
      surpassed anything I had imagined possible, and that we were not instantly
      buried is a miracle. My companion spoke of the lightness of our cargo, and
      reminded me of the excellent qualities of our ship; but I could not help
      feeling the utter hopelessness of hope itself, and prepared myself
      gloomily for that death which I thought nothing could defer beyond an
      hour, as, with every knot of way the ship made, the swelling of the black
      stupendous seas became more dismally appalling. At times we gasped for
      breath at an elevation beyond the albatross—at times became dizzy
      with the velocity of our descent into some watery hell, where the air grew
      stagnant, and no sound disturbed the slumbers of the kraken.
    

      We were at the bottom of one of these abysses, when a quick scream from my
      companion broke fearfully upon the night. “See! see!” cried he, shrieking
      in my ears, “Almighty God! see! see!” As he spoke, I became aware of a
      dull, sullen glare of red light which streamed down the sides of the vast
      chasm where we lay, and threw a fitful brilliancy upon our deck. Casting
      my eyes upwards, I beheld a spectacle which froze the current of my blood.
      At a terrific height directly above us, and upon the very verge of the
      precipitous descent, hovered a gigantic ship of, perhaps, four thousand
      tons. Although upreared upon the summit of a wave more than a hundred
      times her own altitude, her apparent size exceeded that of any ship of the
      line or East Indiaman in existence. Her huge hull was of a deep dingy
      black, unrelieved by any of the customary carvings of a ship. A single row
      of brass cannon protruded from her open ports, and dashed from their
      polished surfaces the fires of innumerable battle-lanterns, which swung to
      and fro about her rigging. But what mainly inspired us with horror and
      astonishment, was that she bore up under a press of sail in the very teeth
      of that supernatural sea, and of that ungovernable hurricane. When we
      first discovered her, her bows were alone to be seen, as she rose slowly
      from the dim and horrible gulf beyond her. For a moment of intense terror
      she paused upon the giddy pinnacle, as if in contemplation of her own
      sublimity, then trembled and tottered, and—came down.
    

      The crew pace the deck with unquiet and tremulous step; but there is upon
      their countenances an expression more of the eagerness of hope than of the
      apathy of despair.
    