      At this instant, I know not what sudden self-possession came over my
      spirit. Staggering as far aft as I could, I awaited fearlessly the ruin
      that was to overwhelm. Our own vessel was at length ceasing from her
      struggles, and sinking with her head to the sea. The shock of the
      descending mass struck her, consequently, in that portion of her frame
      which was already under water, and the inevitable result was to hurl me,
      with irresistible violence, upon the rigging of the stranger.
    

      As I fell, the ship hove in stays, and went about; and to the confusion
      ensuing I attributed my escape from the notice of the crew. With little
      difficulty I made my way unperceived to the main hatchway, which was
      partially open, and soon found an opportunity of secreting myself in the
      hold. Why I did so I can hardly tell. An indefinite sense of awe, which at
      first sight of the navigators of the ship had taken hold of my mind, was
      perhaps the principle of my concealment. I was unwilling to trust myself
      with a race of people who had offered, to the cursory glance I had taken,
      so many points of vague novelty, doubt, and apprehension. I therefore
      thought proper to contrive a hiding-place in the hold. This I did by
      removing a small portion of the shifting-boards, in such a manner as to
      afford me a convenient retreat between the huge timbers of the ship.
    

      I had scarcely completed my work, when a footstep in the hold forced me to
      make use of it. A man passed by my place of concealment with a feeble and
      unsteady gait. I could not see his face, but had an opportunity of
      observing his general appearance. There was about it an evidence of great
      age and infirmity. His knees tottered beneath a load of years, and his
      entire frame quivered under the burthen. He muttered to himself, in a low
      broken tone, some words of a language which I could not understand, and
      groped in a corner among a pile of singular-looking instruments, and
      decayed charts of navigation. His manner was a wild mixture of the
      peevishness of second childhood, and the solemn dignity of a God. He at
      length went on deck, and I saw him no more.
    

      A feeling, for which I have no name, has taken possession of my soul
      —a sensation which will admit of no analysis, to which the lessons
      of bygone times are inadequate, and for which I fear futurity itself will
      offer me no key. To a mind constituted like my own, the latter
      consideration is an evil. I shall never—I know that I shall never—be
      satisfied with regard to the nature of my conceptions. Yet it is not
      wonderful that these conceptions are indefinite, since they have their
      origin in sources so utterly novel. A new sense—a new entity is
      added to my soul.
    

      It is long since I first trod the deck of this terrible ship, and the rays
      of my destiny are, I think, gathering to a focus. Incomprehensible men!
      Wrapped up in meditations of a kind which I cannot divine, they pass me by
      unnoticed. Concealment is utter folly on my part, for the people will not
      see. It was but just now that I passed directly before the eyes of the
      mate; it was no long while ago that I ventured into the captain’s own
      private cabin, and took thence the materials with which I write, and have
      written. I shall from time to time continue this journal. It is true that
      I may not find an opportunity of transmitting it to the world, but I will
      not fall to make the endeavour. At the last moment I will enclose the MS.
      in a bottle, and cast it within the sea.
    

      An incident has occurred which has given me new room for meditation. Are
      such things the operation of ungoverned chance? I had ventured upon deck
      and thrown myself down, without attracting any notice, among a pile of
      ratlin-stuff and old sails in the bottom of the yawl. While musing upon
      the singularity of my fate, I unwittingly daubed with a tar-brush the
      edges of a neatly-folded studding-sail which lay near me on a barrel. The
      studding-sail is now bent upon the ship, and the thoughtless touches of
      the brush are spread out into the word D
ISCOVERY
.
    

      I have made many observations lately upon the structure of the vessel.
      Although well armed, she is not, I think, a ship of war. Her rigging,
      build, and general equipment, all negative a supposition of this kind.
      What she is not, I can easily perceive—what she is I fear it is
      impossible to say. I know not how it is, but in scrutinizing her strange
      model and singular cast of spars, her huge size and overgrown suits of
      canvas, her severely simple bow and antiquated stern, there will
      occasionally flash across my mind a sensation of familiar things, and
      there is always mixed up with such indistinct shadows of recollection, an
      unaccountable memory of old foreign chronicles and ages long ago.
    

      I have been looking at the timbers of the ship. She is built of a material
      to which I am a stranger. There is a peculiar character about the wood
      which strikes me as rendering it unfit for the purpose to which it has
      been applied. I mean its extreme porousness, considered independently by
      the worm-eaten condition which is a consequence of navigation in these
      seas, and apart from the rottenness attendant upon age. It will appear
      perhaps an observation somewhat over-curious, but this wood would have
      every characteristic of Spanish oak, if Spanish oak were distended by any
      unnatural means.
    

      In reading the above sentence a curious apothegm of an old weather-beaten
      Dutch navigator comes full upon my recollection. “It is as sure,” he was
      wont to say, when any doubt was entertained of his veracity, “as sure as
      there is a sea where the ship itself will grow in bulk like the living
      body of the seaman.”
     

      About an hour ago, I made bold to thrust myself among a group of the crew.
      They paid me no manner of attention, and, although I stood in the very
      midst of them all, seemed utterly unconscious of my presence. Like the one
      I had at first seen in the hold, they all bore about them the marks of a
      hoary old age. Their knees trembled with infirmity; their shoulders were
      bent double with decrepitude; their shrivelled skins rattled in the wind;
      their voices were low, tremulous and broken; their eyes glistened with the
      rheum of years; and their gray hairs streamed terribly in the tempest.
      Around them, on every part of the deck, lay scattered mathematical
      instruments of the most quaint and obsolete construction.
    

      I mentioned some time ago the bending of a studding-sail. From that period
      the ship, being thrown dead off the wind, has continued her terrific
      course due south, with every rag of canvas packed upon her, from her
      trucks to her lower studding-sail booms, and rolling every moment her
      top-gallant yard-arms into the most appalling hell of water which it can
      enter into the mind of a man to imagine. I have just left the deck, where
      I find it impossible to maintain a footing, although the crew seem to
      experience little inconvenience. It appears to me a miracle of miracles
      that our enormous bulk is not swallowed up at once and forever. We are
      surely doomed to hover continually upon the brink of eternity, without
      taking a final plunge into the abyss. From billows a thousand times more
      stupendous than any I have ever seen, we glide away with the facility of
      the arrowy sea-gull; and the colossal waters rear their heads above us
      like demons of the deep, but like demons confined to simple threats and
      forbidden to destroy. I am led to attribute these frequent escapes to the
      only natural cause which can account for such effect. I must suppose
      the ship to be within the influence of some strong current, or impetuous
      under-tow.
    

      I have seen the captain face to face, and in his own cabin—but, as I
      expected, he paid me no attention. Although in his appearance there is, to
      a casual observer, nothing which might bespeak him more or less than
      man, still, a feeling of irrepressible reverence and awe mingled with the
      sensation of wonder with which I regarded him. In stature he is nearly my
      own height; that is, about five feet eight inches. He is of a well-knit
      and compact frame of body, neither robust nor remarkably otherwise. But it
      is the singularity of the expression which reigns upon the face—it
      is the intense, the wonderful, the thrilling evidence of old age, so
      utter, so extreme, which excites within my spirit a sense—a
      sentiment ineffable. His forehead, although little wrinkled, seems to bear
      upon it the stamp of a myriad of years. His gray hairs are records
      of the past, and his grayer eyes are sibyls of the future. The cabin floor
      was thickly strewn with strange, iron-clasped folios, and mouldering
      instruments of science, and obsolete long-forgotten charts. His head was
      bowed down upon his hands, and he pored, with a fiery unquiet eye, over a
      paper which I took to be a commission, and which, at all events, bore the
      signature of a monarch. He muttered to himself, as did the first seaman
      whom I saw in the hold, some low peevish syllables of a foreign tongue,
      and although the speaker was close at my elbow, his voice seemed to reach
      my ears from the distance of a mile.
    

      The ship and all in it are imbued with the spirit of Eld. The crew glide
      to and fro like the ghosts of buried centuries; their eyes have an eager
      and uneasy meaning; and when their fingers fall athwart my path in the
      wild glare of the battle-lanterns, I feel as I have never felt before,
      although I have been all my life a dealer in antiquities, and have imbibed
      the shadows of fallen columns at Balbec, and Tadmor, and Persepolis, until
      my very soul has become a ruin.
    

      When I look around me I feel ashamed of my former apprehensions. If I
      trembled at the blast which has hitherto attended us, shall I not stand
      aghast at a warring of wind and ocean, to convey any idea of which the
      words tornado and simoom are trivial and ineffective? All in the immediate
      vicinity of the ship is the blackness of eternal night, and a chaos of
      foamless water; but, about a league on either side of us, may be seen,
      indistinctly and at intervals, stupendous ramparts of ice, towering away
      into the desolate sky, and looking like the walls of the universe.
    

      As I imagined, the ship proves to be in a current—if that appellation can
      properly be given to a tide which, howling and shrieking by the white ice,
      thunders on to the southward with a velocity like the headlong dashing of
      a cataract.
    

      To conceive the horror of my sensations is, I presume, utterly impossible;
      yet a curiosity to penetrate the mysteries of these awful regions,
      predominates even over my despair, and will reconcile me to the most
      hideous aspect of death. It is evident that we are hurrying onwards to
      some exciting knowledge—some never-to-be-imparted secret, whose
      attainment is destruction. Perhaps this current leads us to the southern
      pole itself. It must be confessed that a supposition apparently so wild
      has every probability in its favor.
    

      In the meantime the wind is still in our poop, and, as we carry a crowd of
      canvas, the ship is at times lifted bodily from out the sea! Oh,
      horror upon horror!—the ice opens suddenly to the right, and to the left,
      and we are whirling dizzily, in immense concentric circles, round and
      round the borders of a gigantic amphitheatre, the summit of whose walls is
      lost in the darkness and the distance. But little time will be left me to
      ponder upon my destiny! The circles rapidly grow small—we are
      plunging madly within the grasp of the whirlpool—and amid a roaring,
      and bellowing, and thundering of ocean and of tempest, the ship is
      quivering—oh God! and—going down.