      The portrait, I have already said, was that of a young girl. It was a mere
      head and shoulders, done in what is technically termed a vignette manner;
      much in the style of the favorite heads of Sully. The arms, the bosom, and
      even the ends of the radiant hair melted imperceptibly into the vague yet
      deep shadow which formed the back-ground of the whole. The frame was oval,
      richly gilded and filigreed in Moresque. As a thing of art nothing could
      be more admirable than the painting itself. But it could have been neither
      the execution of the work, nor the immortal beauty of the countenance,
      which had so suddenly and so vehemently moved me. Least of all, could it
      have been that my fancy, shaken from its half slumber, had mistaken the
      head for that of a living person. I saw at once that the peculiarities of
      the design, of the vignetting, and of the frame, must have instantly
      dispelled such idea—must have prevented even its momentary
      entertainment. Thinking earnestly upon these points, I remained, for an
      hour perhaps, half sitting, half reclining, with my vision riveted upon
      the portrait. At length, satisfied with the true secret of its effect, I
      fell back within the bed. I had found the spell of the picture in an
      absolute life-likeliness of expression, which, at first startling, finally
      confounded, subdued, and appalled me. With deep and reverent awe I
      replaced the candelabrum in its former position. The cause of my deep
      agitation being thus shut from view, I sought eagerly the volume which
      discussed the paintings and their histories. Turning to the number which
      designated the oval portrait, I there read the vague and quaint words
      which follow:
    

      “She was a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee.
      And evil was the hour when she saw, and loved, and wedded the painter. He,
      passionate, studious, austere, and having already a bride in his Art; she
      a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee; all
      light and smiles, and frolicsome as the young fawn; loving and cherishing
      all things; hating only the Art which was her rival; dreading only the
      pallet and brushes and other untoward instruments which deprived her of
      the countenance of her lover. It was thus a terrible thing for this lady
      to hear the painter speak of his desire to portray even his young bride.
      But she was humble and obedient, and sat meekly for many weeks in the
      dark, high turret-chamber where the light dripped upon the pale canvas
      only from overhead. But he, the painter, took glory in his work, which
      went on from hour to hour, and from day to day. And he was a passionate,
      and wild, and moody man, who became lost in reveries; so that he would not
      see that the light which fell so ghastly in that lone turret withered the
      health and the spirits of his bride, who pined visibly to all but him. Yet
      she smiled on and still on, uncomplainingly, because she saw that the
      painter (who had high renown) took a fervid and burning pleasure in his
      task, and wrought day and night to depict her who so loved him, yet who
      grew daily more dispirited and weak. And in sooth some who beheld the
      portrait spoke of its resemblance in low words, as of a mighty marvel, and
      a proof not less of the power of the painter than of his deep love for her
      whom he depicted so surpassingly well. But at length, as the labor drew
      nearer to its conclusion, there were admitted none into the turret; for
      the painter had grown wild with the ardor of his work, and turned his eyes
      from canvas merely, even to regard the countenance of his wife. And he
      would not see that the tints which he spread upon the canvas were drawn
      from the cheeks of her who sate beside him. And when many weeks had
      passed, and but little remained to do, save one brush upon the mouth and
      one tint upon the eye, the spirit of the lady again flickered up as the
      flame within the socket of the lamp. And then the brush was given, and
      then the tint was placed; and, for one moment, the painter stood entranced
      before the work which he had wrought; but in the next, while he yet gazed,
      he grew tremulous and very pallid, and aghast, and crying with a loud
      voice, ‘This is indeed Life itself!’ turned suddenly to regard his
      beloved:—She was dead!”