THE OVAL PORTRAIT

      The château into which my valet had ventured to make forcible entrance,
      rather than permit me, in my desperately wounded condition, to pass a
      night in the open air, was one of those piles of commingled gloom and
      grandeur which have so long frowned among the Appennines, not less in fact
      than in the fancy of Mrs. Radcliffe. To all appearance it had been
      temporarily and very lately abandoned. We established ourselves in one of
      the smallest and least sumptuously furnished apartments. It lay in a
      remote turret of the building. Its decorations were rich, yet tattered and
      antique. Its walls were hung with tapestry and bedecked with manifold and
      multiform armorial trophies, together with an unusually great number of
      very spirited modern paintings in frames of rich golden arabesque. In
      these paintings, which depended from the walls not only in their main
      surfaces, but in very many nooks which the bizarre architecture of the
      château rendered necessary—in these paintings my incipient delirium,
      perhaps, had caused me to take deep interest; so that I bade Pedro to
      close the heavy shutters of the room—since it was already night—to
      light the tongues of a tall candelabrum which stood by the head of my bed, and
      to throw open far and wide the fringed curtains of black velvet which
      enveloped the bed itself. I wished all this done that I might resign
      myself, if not to sleep, at least alternately to the contemplation of
      these pictures, and the perusal of a small volume which had been found
      upon the pillow, and which purported to criticise and describe them.
    

      Long, long I read—and devoutly, devotedly I gazed. Rapidly and
      gloriously the hours flew by and the deep midnight came. The position of
      the candelabrum displeased me, and outreaching my hand with difficulty,
      rather than disturb my slumbering valet, I placed it so as to throw its
      rays more fully upon the book.
    

      But the action produced an effect altogether unanticipated. The rays of
      the numerous candles (for there were many) now fell within a niche of the
      room which had hitherto been thrown into deep shade by one of the
      bed-posts. I thus saw in vivid light a picture all unnoticed before. It
      was the portrait of a young girl just ripening into womanhood. I glanced
      at the painting hurriedly, and then closed my eyes. Why I did this was not
      at first apparent even to my own perception. But while my lids remained
      thus shut, I ran over in my mind my reason for so shutting them. It was an
      impulsive movement to gain time for thought—to make sure that my
      vision had not deceived me—to calm and subdue my fancy for a more
      sober and more certain gaze. In a very few moments I again looked fixedly
      at the painting.
    

      That I now saw aright I could not and would not doubt; for the first
      flashing of the candles upon that canvas had seemed to dissipate the
      dreamy stupor which was stealing over my senses, and to startle me at once
      into waking life.
    