Character Profiles

Character Profiles

Maomao

Formerly an apothecary in the pleasure district. Downright obsessed with medicines and poisons, but largely uninterested in other matters. Has deep respect for her adoptive father Luomen. Twenty years old.

Jinshi

The Emperor’s younger brother. Inhumanly beautiful. He’s remarkably down to earth for someone so gorgeous, but there’s no telling what he might do if he lets himself go. Has an inferiority complex about his no-more-than-average intellectual abilities. Real name: Ka Zuigetsu. Twenty-one years old.

Basen

Gaoshun’s son; Jinshi’s attendant. Doesn’t feel pain as acutely as most people, which gives him far greater physical capacities than most. He’s very serious, but that makes him easy to tweak. In love with Consort Lishu.

Gaoshun

Basen’s father. A well-built soldier, he was formerly Jinshi’s attendant, but now he serves the Emperor personally. He’s accompanying Jinshi on his expedition by order of His Majesty.

Chue

Baryou’s wife, and mother of his child. Not strikingly attractive, but she makes up for it with her initiative and silly personality.

Lakan

Maomao’s biological father and Luomen’s nephew. A freak with a monocle. He’s a high-ranking member of the military, but his bizarre behavior causes people to avoid him. He loves Go and Shogi and is a formidable player.

Empress Gyokuyou

The Emperor’s legal wife. An exotic beauty with red hair and green eyes. Twenty-two years old.

Rikuson

Once Lakan’s aide, he now serves in the western capital. He has a photographic memory for people’s faces.

Gyokuen

Empress Gyokuyou’s father. Officially the ruler of the western capital, but when his daughter ascended to the throne he moved to the royal capital.

Gyoku-ou

Gyokuen’s eldest son; Empress Gyokuyou’s half-brother. Currently leads the western capital while his father is away.

Suiren

Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting and former wet nurse.

Taomei

Basen’s mother and Gaoshun’s wife. Blind in one eye. A “masterpiece of a woman” who reminds one of a predatory animal. Six years older than Gaoshun.

Baryou

Gaoshun’s son and Basen’s older brother. Spends most of his time hidden behind a curtain.

Tianyu

One of Maomao’s colleagues; a young physician. He can seem frivolous, and he has a thing for En’en. He’s quick to stick his nose in whenever something interests him.

Dr. You

An upper physician who hails from the western capital.

Lahan’s Brother

Older brother of Lahan; Lakan’s nephew and adopted son. A perfectly ordinary person who shines when offering quips.