This girl, so much like Gyokuyou, had a deep respect for Gyoku-ou. In her former life, her family had been nomads, but when her father grew ill, they settled in a farming village. Of course, that didn’t immediately make them proficient farmers. They let the livestock pasture in a nearby field, and bit by bit they learned how to farm. She described with evident gratitude how the governor had supported them monetarily.

Gyoku-ou was not evil in Gyokuyou’s eyes. He simply believed he was always right. Always just. That was why they didn’t get along. She, favored by Gyokuen, contravened his justice. Of this she was well aware.

He was the eldest son, by Gyokuen’s official wife. If he looked down on a girl born later to a concubine, well, that was hardly unique to I-Sei Province. Most men in Li would have done the same.

No, what bothered Gyokuyou was how Gyoku-ou denigrated her appearance. Not her face as such—this wasn’t about whether she was beautiful or ugly. Instead he belittled her red hair, her green eyes. He was a merchant’s son, the one who was supposed to help the western capital flourish as a nexus of trade in the future. Not the best vocation for a xenophobe.

Gyokuen’s policy was in general to be a good neighbor to foreigners. Gyokuyou didn’t understand how Gyoku-ou could respect their father so much while turning his back on one of his most important teachings.

This was the man Yaqin so deeply admired. Some years before, she had been forced to sell herself on account of a bad harvest. Selling a daughter was hardly unheard of—women were just another commodity in poor households. She’d begun to work as a prostitute.

This was the situation from which Gyoku-ou had plucked Yaqin, adopting her as his daughter. A beautiful story, Gyokuyou thought. She chose not to say what was behind it; she would not tell Yaqin the truth of the matter. She believed it was part of her strength that she did not undermine the girl.

“I certainly think we can expect to hear something from the western capital soon. I’ll tell you the moment I learn anything,” Gyokuyou said. Then she pulled a hair stick from Yaqin’s hair. Feeling her head get lighter, Yaqin let out a breath. “Now get changed, and let’s start on our studies. Learning—that’s the most important thing you can do to be of help to my honored brother.”

Yaqin was obedient, a good girl. She respected Gyoku-ou and worried even for the family who had sold her. Even though they had no doubt received more than enough silver to live on from Gyoku-ou—to keep their mouths shut.

As Yaqin left the room to go change, Haku-u entered holding a crumpled piece of paper. “Lady Gyokuyou,” she said.

She gave Gyokuyou the paper, which had been folded and twisted so it could travel by pigeon. This particular missive seemed to have been treated even more roughly than usual. Gyokuyou looked at the bird, wondering if it was the one the Moon Prince normally used, but no. This message had come from someone other than His Majesty’s younger brother.

Haku-u had read it already, it seemed. The message contained word that the western capital—in fact, all of I-Sei Province—was beset by a plague of insects. The messy handwriting bespoke the urgency with which it had been written.

“I have one message prepared to go by land and another by sea. We have one messenger bird left, if you wish to use it. The western capital is still in confusion, however, and I question whether it would arrive safely.”

Even so, it would be far faster than sending word by human hands.

“The bird, please,” Gyokuyou said. Then she took out a piece of particularly sturdy paper. On it she wrote only a single sentence:

As you will.

Then she tucked the letter in some oil paper, attached it to the leg of the pigeon Haku-u had brought, and released the bird. The white creature looked perfect against the bright blue sky.

The sky was so blue here in the central region, in fact, that it was almost hard to imagine that far to the west, it was being blotted out by insects, the bugs ravaging the crop and supplies. Those who couldn’t imagine it might sneer to themselves, What a bunch of crybabies, those westerners. “Ooh! The bugs are going to get me! Boo hoo hoo!”

Gyokuyou let out a great sigh. Why had she entered the rear palace? For what? Why had her father seen fit to send her here, to the country’s central region?

Would Gyokuyou’s father continue to love her long into the future?

“All right!” Gyokuyou almost gave herself a slap on the cheek for energy, but Haku-u stopped her.

“Your inner tomboy is showing, ma’am. Not on the face, please.”

“Yes, yes.”

“And try to sound like you mean it when you answer.” Haku-u, her friend from childhood, looked at her sternly.

Gyokuyou took out a new sheet of paper and began writing down what she could do for the western region.

Her fight was just beginning.