Epilogue

Aromatic tea and baked snacks with plenty of butter. A moderately stimulating incense that drew out the richest notes of the sweet smell.

Empress Gyokuyou hosted, and her guests came to be entertained.

She’d held many tea parties during her days in the rear palace, but fewer since she had gone from consort to Empress. She was confident, however, that her ability to coddle a visitor had not diminished.

“Thank you ever so much for inviting us,” one of the women said. They were the wives of some of the most important people in Li. They were all older than Gyokuyou, with one exception—her niece, Yaqin.

“And who might this be?” a sharp-eyed guest asked upon spotting her.

“My niece,” Gyokuyou replied with a smile. “She’s joined us all the way from the western capital.”

Yaqin had still not entered the rear palace, as not only Gyokuyou but Gyokuen had objected to her doing so. Gyokuyou’s father and her brother wanted different things: this realization made her even less hesitant to act.

She had introduced the girl not as Gyoku-ou’s daughter, but as her niece. Nobody would know Gyoku-ou as the governor of the far-off western reaches. He was known in the capital as Gyokuen’s son, and little more.

Anyway, Yaqin resembled Gyokuyou more than she did Gyoku-ou. No doubt people would conclude that she was Gyokuyou’s niece on her mother’s side.

They talked about the most popular perfumes, imported velvet, the newest makeup—subjects that were a bit juvenile considering the age bracket of the attendees. Partly, Gyokuyou deliberately brought up these subjects so that Yaqin, who wasn’t used to these sorts of functions yet, would feel comfortable, but it also served to allow her to avoid political discussions.

The main objective today was not to strengthen her ties with these women. In fact, she had gone out of her way to invite well-heeled wives who didn’t display too much ambition.

Over these past several months, Yaqin had begun to open up to Gyokuyou. As Gyokuyou had suspected, she was adopted, not her half-brother’s blood child. He must have decided that the Emperor’s choice of Gyokuyou as his empress showed that the ruler had a thing for “exotic”-looking women.

Gyokuyou could only laugh.

The Emperor was not a man who would choose his empress for her looks alone. They might have been a factor, of course, but not enough for him to fall madly in love. Gyokuyou might have the Imperial affection, but she was not the kind who could bring a country to its knees.

Her father Gyokuen understood His Majesty well. That was why he hadn’t offered a young Gyokuyou to the previous emperor. He had waited, using the time until the throne changed hands to give Gyokuyou the education she would need to be Empress.

He was a merchant, Gyokuen. He would choose the path of greatest profit. He would not be distracted by avarice, though—he would look ten, twenty, fifty years into the future. Even beyond his own death. He would seek more than the modest glory of one clan, Gyokuyou knew.

Gyokuyou had faith that Gyokuen loved her. But his love was not unconditional. If she became a hindrance to his pursuit of gain, he would cut her loose. What Gyokuyou could do was raise her own value, make herself weigh heavier in Gyokuen’s scales.

This tea party was one way she could do that.

The party concluded amid a convivial atmosphere. The wives showed great interest in the curious trade goods from the west. Gyokuyou would have to make presents of them soon.

She ordered her ladies-in-waiting to clean up, then went back to her room, accompanied by Yaqin.

“You seem to be learning how to handle yourself at a tea party,” Gyokuyou observed.

“Yes, ma’am. Only thanks to you.”

“At first, you couldn’t bring yourself to say a word!” She chuckled.

“Please, I beg you, don’t remind me.”

Yaqin was lovely, true enough, but she was ultimately still a “makeshift” daughter. She could make herself sound aristocratic for a few minutes of brief conversation, but much longer than that and her I-sei twang started to come out. Gyokuyou would probably still have the same problem if Hongniang hadn’t corrected her every time her own accent had shown itself ever since she was young.

The accent made Yaqin less than suitable for tea parties. In the end, she had been offered up for one purpose: to gain the romantic interest of the nobility.

“Lady Gyokuyou, may I ask you something?” Yaqin said.

“Go ahead.”

“How fares I-sei Province now?” The young woman couldn’t hide her anxiety.

“Why do you ask? Does something there worry you?” Gyokuyou asked bluntly.

After a second Yaqin replied, “The bugs must be coming soon. I fear for the crop.” She was a very direct young woman—kind at heart, and a quick study. Gyokuyou sympathized with her.

It had been ten days or so before that Yaqin had opened up to Gyokuyou about her real parents—a subject she had no doubt intended to keep strictly to herself.

The governor—Gyoku-ou.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Is this—?”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Gyokuyou clenched her jaw. “Haku-u.”