“The answer is not .” Now she was sure: she’d had this conversation before. But who is this guy? Her eyes drifted to the box full of sweet potatoes. The mention of Lahan’s name sparked a memory. “You’re Lahan’s Brother, aren’t you?” Her memory of him was hazy, but she thought that was who he was.

“Lahan is younger than me! Why should 
I
 have to be defined in terms of 
him
?!”

Yes, this was Lahan’s Brother, with his delectable reactions. She had met him before, and remembered him mostly for being very normal and offering copious chances for witty interjections. His face, though—that she had completely forgotten.

“That wasn’t an invitation.” She’d only just recently, and 
finally
, remembered the quack doctor’s name. She didn’t need any more to learn.

“Listen to me! Let me tell you my name!”

Maomao, however, was in no mood to listen. “More importantly: What are you doing here?” This guy normally spent all his time tending potato fields in the central region.

Lahan’s Brother looked scandalized by Maomao’s question. Lihaku, having decided that he wasn’t a threat, looked on quietly.

“I’m here because they dragged me here! They brought me instead of my father, with orders to teach the people of the western capital how to grow these things!” Maomao sensed some resentment. “These things” referred to the sweet potatoes.

“I take it Lahan duped you into doing this.”

“H-H-He did not!”

Lahan’s Brother was nothing if not easy to read. And Lahan remained his usual ruthless self.

“Why didn’t he ask his father?” Maomao asked. Lahan’s Father, La...uh, something or other, loved farming and seemed like he would go to the ends of the earth if there was a field to be tended there.

Lahan’s Brother paused. “After his experiment with growing sweet potatoes in the north came to light, he can’t get away.”

“Sweet potatoes yield several times more than a rice crop, so he thought they would be perfect for Shihoku Province, where there’s plenty of people and space.”

Jinshi had been trying everything he could to shore up the food supply, and she seemed to recall Lahan being very bullish on potatoes as well.

“The problem is, sweet potatoes come from the south, so they don’t grow well in the north. In fact, I doubt they’ll grow at all, but Dad says it’s worth trying to figure out what the northern limit is, so I just let him do that.”

“I’m not sure this is the time...” Even Maomao could tell that this was a dangerous idea. A famine was looming; they couldn’t spare people and land to satisfy one farmer’s curiosity.

And he had such a pleasant look...

The man had reminded her of Luomen, and evidently when something interested him, he became completely absorbed in it to the exclusion of everything else.

“It would be too risky for all the fields to be sweet potatoes, so I brought these too. Have a look.” Lahan’s Brother tossed her something from the box next to the crate of sweet potatoes.

“Regular potatoes? This is a white potato, right?”

It was a big, stout, round potato. Potatoes were a relatively new foodstuff; the matron of the Verdigris House had told Maomao that they weren’t yet widely eaten when she was young.

“That’s right. A tuber like this can grow even in the cold, even if the ground isn’t very fertile, so he made me bring these along. Lahan only knows Nice Dad, but he can be a pretty formidable character when he wants to.”

Lahan’s Father, La-something-or-other by name, was evidently a bona fide member of the La clan. Even Maomao had nearly been taken in by his pleasant countenance.

“Potatoes can be harvested twice a year, so my father has been hell-bent on planting them. I’m afraid he might be trying to use them to fudge his harvest numbers.”

“You seem to know a lot about potatoes,” Maomao observed. She’d taken Lahan’s Brother to be a completely average person with no special qualities other than his vulnerability to a good quip, but it turned out he did have something to offer.

“Wow, you’re a regular farmer!” Lihaku said, clapping Lahan’s Brother on the back. He hadn’t followed the entire conversation, but he was impressed just the same.

“F-Farmer?!” Lahan’s Brother choked. He seemed to want to push back, but he was too enraged to say anything more. The quack doctor, apparently intimidated by Lahan’s Brother’s fury, kept his distance. Tianyu seemed to judge the man simply too normal to be interesting.

“So your point is, these potatoes aren’t food, they’re seed crops?” Maomao said.

“Yes, they are! I’m supposed to show the people how to raise them. Him and his My older brother can’t spend his whole life tied to one place ! How is one field so different from another, anyway?!”

In short, this normal person had demonstrated a normal interest in the outside world and been duped for it. The fact that he had chased down this crate of seed potatoes, though, showed that he was indeed a dedicated farmer. Maomao suspected he would produce a lovely crop, even if he complained the whole time.

Teaching them to grow new crops, huh? That presumably meant Lahan’s Brother would be spending his time out in the farming villages.

“When you go out to the villages, take me with you,” Maomao said.

“Why would I do that?”

“There’s something I want to investigate.”

This was a gift from above. She’d assumed she would have to ask Rikuson or someone—until Lahan’s Brother had come along.

I saw Rikuson’s outfit. The mud-streaked clothes suggested he’d been inspecting a farm somewhere. But what was a man sent all the way from the capital doing relegated to the fringes of his new home?

Maybe he was checking the harvests to make sure no one’s cheating on their taxes.
 Or maybe... 
Maybe he knows about the insect plague.

I’m not all that interested in bugs, but I don’t think I can get out of this one.

For a second, Maomao found herself thinking of another young woman, one who had liked insects far more than she did.

“I see.”

“Exactly.”