A plague of insects had struck west of the royal capital, which meant there was a good chance the locusts had come from farther west than that. It would always be easier to deal with a swarm of locusts when there weren’t as many of them.

“Of course, I’m trusting myself to your services today, Master Physician. As ever.” Jinshi smiled as he received them. They were in the most sumptuous guest room in the annex. There was a rich, thick, delicately embroidered sheep’s wool rug, and the curtains appeared to be made of silk; they shimmered and shone each time the wind ruffled them. Maomao could never help wondering about the market value of Jinshi’s accommodations.

That looks good, though , she thought, spying a plate of fruit on the table. There were luscious grapes, so recently chilled that they were still sweating. They promised sweet juice filling the mouth as they burst between the teeth.

I wonder if he needs them checked for poison.

Sadly, Maomao wasn’t there at that moment to taste Jinshi’s food. That job fell to Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting Taomei. The boisterous Chue was missing today, and Maomao didn’t see Baryou either, although she had her suspicions about what was on the other side of the gently rustling curtains. Suiren and Gaoshun stood by the wall.

The quack doctor remained cowed in Jinshi’s presence. “Eep! L-Let’s get started, then...” As usual, he could barely get the words out, and as usual, his exam was pro forma at best.

Tianyu was also absent from this scene. He’d proved too likely to offend someone important to be invited on a visit like this. Tianyu was perceptive enough that he might have looked askance at Maomao and the quack going to do this exam, but if he had any doubts, he had kept them to himself for the moment. Was that because he knew how to take a hint, or had someone on Jinshi’s side of things reached out to help him understand? Maomao preferred not to think about it.

I also don’t care either way. She had things to do. For now, she would put aside the question of why Jinshi had been consigned to the villa. The freak strategist wasn’t in the same building; that was what really mattered.

“All right, young lady, I’ll be heading back,” the quack said.

“Yes, sir,” Maomao replied.

The quack left without so much as a scruple. His bodyguard, Lihaku, went with him.

Jinshi turned down the sparkle just a bit. “Tea, if you would,” he said.

“Of course, sir,” replied Taomei, and went to prepare it.

“Here you go.” Suiren thoughtfully brought a chair, so Maomao sat down. She wasn’t rude enough to grab any grapes just then, but she tried to send Suiren a telepathic message that she’d like some as a souvenir.

“How are you settling into your new workplace?” Jinshi asked.

“Easily enough, sir. The personnel haven’t changed, so it’s just getting used to the new environment.” That was the honest answer. What she really wanted now was to find out what kinds of medicine were available in the western capital. When they’d taken stock of what had been used during the ship voyage, it turned out to be chiefly nausea medication and antipyretics. The southern route they’d taken had been as hot as high summer, and combined with the poor air circulation on the ship, they’d had lots of cases of dizziness. Heatstroke was best cured by water, not medicine, but Maomao suspected that while she was away, the quack had diagnosed many of the cases as colds and handed out antipyretics. That would explain it.

Funny enough, it had worked out: the medicine the quack had prescribed tasted so bad that patients had to take it with plenty of water anyway, so in the end it had cured their heatstroke.

He’s sure got luck on his side , she marveled. Even better, she’d heard that they would be given new supplies bought in the western capital to make up the shortfall in their inventory. Wish I could have gone along on the shopping trip, though. She was so curious about exactly what drugs were sold here.

Maomao, however, had other things to attend to. She glanced around, then stole a look at Jinshi’s side. She wasn’t sure how to bring that up, so she settled on changing the subject entirely.

“I gather we have a potato farmer among us, thanks to Lahan’s connections.”

This was Lahan they were talking about; if they succeeded in cultivating potatoes in I-sei Province, she was sure he intended to go straight into exporting them to Shaoh or something. It was right next door to I-sei, which would minimize shipping costs.

Jinshi gave her a look. “A potato farmer? He’s your cousin, is what I heard.”

“No relation,” she said firmly, so that there would be no mistake.

“But I heard he was Lahan’s older brother.”

“Yes, but Lahan and I are complete strangers.”

Jinshi gave her a harder look, but he went along with it.

“Anyway, yes, we do have a potato farmer here. When I heard he was from the La clan, I expected someone... I don’t know. More distinctive.”

“Have you met him, sir?”

“I’ve only seen him in passing. I saw him when Lahan was helping him onto the ship.”

In other words, he had spotted them smack in the middle of the dupe.

“He’s a very normal person, sir.”

“Yes. Very normal.” It seemed Jinshi shared Maomao’s assessment—but anyway, if he already knew about him, that made everything easier.

“I’d like to accompany him to the farming villages. Do you think I could be given permission?”

“The farming villages? It would help me if you could go, but then how would you handle your medical duties?” Jinshi patted his flank pointedly.

You did that to yourself , Maomao thought. He already knew how to change the dressings, anyway, so she didn’t have to be examining it all the time.

“What kind of issues?” Maomao cocked her head. Jinshi had so many different problems to deal with, she didn’t even know which one he meant.

“What are these?” Maomao asked.

“Yes, sir?”