“I think you’re like me. You couldn’t accept a partner who was chosen for you, the way Mother, Father, and Baryou could. What I’m saying is that if there’s someone you’re in love with, now would be the time to say so, before Uncle or someone decides for you.”

“In 
l-l-love
 with?!”

“I knew it! I’ll take that as a yes.” She gave him a very unpleasant smirk.

“I’m s-sorry, S-Sister, but I don’t know what you mean...”

“No, of course you don’t. You don’t have to say it; it’s written all over your face.”

Basen unconsciously put his hands to his cheeks and discovered they were warm.

Maamei stretched out on the bed. “I didn’t come here today just to tease you.”

Basen stayed silent. Maamei smirked even harder.

“As I said, neither Mother, nor Father, nor Baryou chose their own partners. There’s nothing wrong with that, but they happen to be the kind who can cope with whomever they end up with. Not me. I could never abide someone my parents or family picked for me. So I never gave them the chance—I decided for myself!”

Basen thought of Maamei’s husband: he was twelve years older than her. Basen remembered her saying she would marry him when she was only eight years old. Everyone had had a good chuckle, but eight years later, her pronouncement had come true.

Every time he met his brother-in-law, Basen felt like a failure.

Maamei pointed squarely at him. “You and I are the same. We could never consent to political marriages.”

“I-I’d like to think—”

“If you agreed to such a match, it would always remain a sham. Mother and Father gradually learned to love each other, and Baryou and Chue have found their places in their relationship, but you wouldn’t be able to do either of those things. Even if you could accept the situation, I tell you, your wife would never be happy.”

“I... I think...”

He found he couldn’t contradict her outright. He was sure that whomever his family might choose as his wife, she wouldn’t be a bad person. Likewise, he was confident that he would come to care for her.

In the back of his mind, though, there floated an image of a girl like a flower on the roadside.

“There. You just thought of someone, didn’t you?”

“I—I did not!” he exclaimed, flushing bright red. Maamei’s smile got wider.

“Not that it matters to me, but let me give you some sisterly advice. If there’s someone you have feelings for, you need to tell her. If she rejects you, so be it—at least you’ll know where you stand. I know you, and without that, you’d spend your entire life pining for her.”

Basen was silent: this, too, he could not deny.

“You might have nothing but brute strength to recommend you, you might be a damned fool who always goes charging in—but you’re still my little brother. Make your choice, and make it like you mean it.”

“You never said anything like that to Baryou...”

“Baryou has committed to his choices in his own way, you know.”

Basen didn’t really understand what that meant.

Maamei, looking like she felt lighter now that she had said what she came to say, got up from the bed. “I’ll be going, then.”

Basen’s mouth moved, but no words came out as his sister went to leave the room.

Then she turned. “Ah. One other thing I’d like to be sure of.”

“Yes? What?”

“She’s not married, is she?”

Basen froze in place but looked away. “No! Well... Not anymore!”

“
What?
” Maamei replied, with a theatricality that drove Basen up the wall.

The ducks surrounded Basen, quacking noisily. Jofu, still with the black spot on her beak, was there with him. Jofu was noticeably bigger than the other birds—she alone had remained with him as the other ducks had gone one by one to the farming villages.

Basen was wearing a brand-new outfit. Perhaps it would have been just as well to choose something well-worn, since it was only going to get dirty anyway, but new clothes were a chance to reset and refresh himself.

Jofu led Basen along, shaking her tail. She knew where he was going.

Steam rose from the hatchery, warmed as ever by the hot springs and the fire in the oven. By Basen’s request, they were hatching several times as many ducks as before.

Basen braced himself as someone emerged from the shed. He thought it might have been Lishu, but after a second he realized his mistake. It was one of the other wayfarers responsible for the hatchery, a middle-aged woman he’d met several times before.

“Master Basen! Everything is ready,” she said. She had cages, each quacking with a duck. “I was told this would be your last visit. I do hope you’ll take good care of these sweeties.” She bowed deeply to him. Some of the wayfarers were just researchers, but others treated the ducks like their own children. Basen had faith that a nun who felt love even for waterfowl would never mistreat Lishu.

With all respect and apologies to the nun, however, there was just one thing on Basen’s mind: disappointment. He’d told Lishu his next visit would be his last, but he hadn’t said when he would be coming. Anyway, she wasn’t under any obligation to match his schedule.

He clenched his fists. Despondent at his own ineptitude, he took the cages and put them on the wagon. The driver of the wagon pitched in, and the three of them loaded the cages. Jofu had wandered off, evidently tired of the scene.

“I must apologize to you for being on duty today,” the nun said.

“I-I’m sure I don’t know what you mean, ma’am!” Basen said.

“Hee hee! I’m sure you would much rather be passing the time with a sweet young thing like Lishu than a ripe old auntie like me. Although it can be tricky to hold a conversation with that girl—she’s not the world’s best talker.”

“H-Heavens!”

“You know, you sound a lot like her.” The nun laughed out loud, but there was a refinement to it; it spoke to the upbringing she must have had before she became a wayfarer. “Lishu is, well, timid. If I were a bit younger, it’s the sort of thing that might have annoyed me.”

“What?”

“Now all I feel is sympathy—she reminds me of myself when I was her age!” The nun patted the ducks in the cages. “No one gives her any trouble, of course. Other than a few strange ones who like this kind of lifestyle, most of us who come to Red Plum Village have our stories. I left the profane world more than twenty years ago now, so I have no idea who or what Lishu might be. And no interest in finding out. I just wish she would stop tripping and breaking the eggs!” The nun put a cage on the wagon. “There, that’s the last one. Where are these ducks going to end up, I wonder?”

“We’re going west,” Basen said. He would head overland toward the western capital, distributing the ducks as he went.

“Well, have a safe trip,” the nun said to the birds. “Eat lots of bugs, lay plenty of good eggs, and live as long as you can.”

The ducks quacked at the nun almost as if in response. She knew that if they couldn’t make themselves useful, they would be turned into dinner. Basen couldn’t ask the farmers to raise pets.

Basen found himself wondering who this woman was and why she had come to Red Plum Village, but he didn’t ask. He could only assume she, too, had a story of her own.

“Quack!” Jofu quacked, pecking at Basen’s toes.

“What is it? Where have you been?” Basen asked. In response, the duck grabbed a beakful of his robe and pulled.

“Looks like she wants to take you somewhere. Why not go see where? I’ll handle the rest here.”

“Are you sure?” Basen glanced at the driver, who nodded.

Jofu loped ahead of Basen, flapping her wings and looking back occasionally to make sure he was still following. Ducks were evidently smarter than he had given them credit for.

Jofu led him to a small lake, a place edged with green among the otherwise desolate scenery. A young woman in white sat by the lakeside.

“Lady Lishu?” Basen said, and the young woman looked up. She was holding a blade of young grass.

“Master Basen!” Lishu was so surprised to see him that she dropped the grass. Jofu promptly started pecking at it—it seemed to be a favorite duck snack. “Is today your last visit, then?”

Confronted with Lishu, whom he had given up hope of seeing, Basen froze. He was overjoyed to see her, but he had no idea how to talk to her. And after all the practice he had done last night!

“Lady Lishu!” he said.

“Yes?”

“W-Wonderful weather we’re having, isn’t it!”

“Er, i-it is?” Lishu looked confused. The sky was cloudy, and though it wasn’t raining, neither was it sunny and cheerful.

Lishu was no more sure what to say than Basen. For a moment, silence reigned between them. Jofu stood smack between the two and looked from one to the other.

“U-Um!” By coincidence, they spoke at the exact same time.

“G-Go ahead, Lady Lishu.”

“Wha? No, please speak first, Master Basen.”

Once again neither of them said anything. The situation remained at an impasse, although Jofu continued to peck at the grass.

Basen balled up his fists, gritted his teeth, furrowed his brow, and finally managed to open his mouth. “Lady Lishu. Would you do me the honor of coming to the western capital with me?”

His clothes, the ones he’d picked out fresh, were filthy from loading ducks onto the wagon. He had nothing in his hands to offer—not a fancy accessory, not even a flower. Maamei hadn’t demanded to know who exactly he had feelings for—but if she had seen him like this, she would never have let him live it down. Still, for this one act, she would have had praise.

Basen would ask the Emperor and the Moon Prince. He knew the Emperor was concerned about Lishu. He would go to him, spirit earnest, head bowed.

Basen’s heart was pounding in his chest. His breath was harsh, fogging in the air in front of him. He could barely bring himself to look at Lishu for fear of how she might have been regarding him. When he did, though, he found her red-faced and biting her lip. She held up her skirts with grass-stained fingers.

“Lady Lishu?” he said.

“Master Basen...” Lishu finally managed to open her mouth, but her eyes brimmed with tears and she sniffled as she spoke. “I... I c-c-can’t go with you!”

“What do you mean, you can’t?” Basen asked, trying hard not to let his face fall. He’d been well aware that she might turn him down. He’d practically been begging for it, springing that question on her like he had.

Lishu was trying as hard as he was to hide her emotions, and meeting with the same mixed success. Tears gathered in her eyes, and her mouth was tight. She was clenching her fists so hard her nails bit into her palms.

Maamei had told him to tell her. To make clear how he felt. Maybe that had been a mistake. Basen’s actions had only brought Lishu more pain.

“Lady Lishu, please just—”

He was about to say 
forget what I said
, but she burst out:

“I w-wish I could! I wish I could go with you!” She looked him square in the face, just managing to hold back her tears. “B-But now, I know all too well. I’m a foolish girl who knows nothing of the world, and someone will try to use me no matter where I go. I know they were trying to keep me safe by sending me here to Red Plum Village.”

Basen knew it was true: all the inhabitants of Red Plum Village were eccentrics loosed from the fetters of the secular world. Many of them weren’t even that interested in other people, so they wouldn’t torment Lishu, or try to use her for their own ends as her father had.

“If I were to go with you to the western capital, Master Basen, I would only be a burden to you.”

“Lady Lishu, no...”

“Do your duty for Ji—I mean, the Moon Prince, Master Basen. I’d only be baggage. I’ve come to have some idea of how people see me.” The tears continued to gather in Lishu’s eyes as she looked up at Basen, but they didn’t fall. She blinked furiously, holding them back. “What you said when you caught me—it gave me the strength to go on. To this day, it holds me up.”

Jofu nuzzled Lishu’s feet, worried about her. Lishu patted the duck on the head. She looked down, and then when she looked up again there were no more tears in her eyes.

“I am not just a tool. I want to learn to think for myself and choose my own path.”

Basen thought he caught the hint of a spark in Lishu’s eyes. It was still weak and dim, but he saw the determination to make it burn brighter.

“I know there are many people who care for me. Kanan and my lady-in-waiting, His Majesty and Lady Ah-Duo. The Moon Prince. And you, Master Basen. Along with many others. But I’ve been so caught up in my own misfortune that I’ve never so much as thanked you.”

Lishu was as delicate and ephemeral as a flower. How could she be expected to worry about anyone but herself?

“You can’t blame yourself for that. Anyone in your position would have done the same...”

“Don’t baby me. Please. I’ve been doing a lot of thinking, such as I can, and this is my choice. If I told myself that I couldn’t have done differently, that anyone would have done the same thing—wouldn’t that be a slap in your face as well, Master Basen?”

Basen’s breath caught in his throat. Guarding the Imperial family meant putting his life on the line—not something he could readily do while also trying to keep Lishu safe.

“I can’t go to the western capital,” Lishu said, giving Jofu a pat on the head. “But...maybe, once I’ve gained a little more confidence in myself...” Here she glanced away from him again. “Maybe you could come back to Red Plum Village?”

Her face was red. She looked like there was more she wanted to say, but nothing came.

Basen was blushing as hard as she was; his mouth hung open, but he couldn’t seem to say anything either. As what Lishu was saying dawned on him, he felt the blood run hot with excitement. “A-Absolutely!” he said.

Without quite meaning to, he pitched forward; Jofu squawked and scrambled out of the way.

“When I see you again, I promise I’ll be a more worthy man. You said you would only be extra weight, but I can easily lift one or two hundred kin ! If you still worry that won’t be enough, I’ll keep working until I can lift two—no, three times that much!”

He would work so that Lishu need never fear that she was merely “baggage.” So that she would know he wouldn’t stagger no matter how hard she leaned against him.

The surface of the lake rippled softly, catching the light. Jofu pecked at the grass along the bank, where there were small buds amid the stalks.

Spring would be here soon, but winter’s chill had not yet departed. Lishu was in her own winter now. But though she be trampled, though she be picked, though she be pecked at, she was trying to put forth a beautiful blossom. It was not for Basen to interfere. He would simply wait, anticipating the spring day when that flower would bloom.

He would do what he had to do until the day he could go to that flower.

“I’m going to the western capital, but I’ll be back. I’ll protect the Moon Prince, help protect this nation, and I will protect you. I’ll grow into a man who can support anyone and anything who needs him.”

Lishu smiled. “I know you will. I only pray for your success and safety.”

Was it just him, or was there an aroma of flowers in the air? Strange; none of the buds among the grass seemed to be open yet.

There was only Lishu, with a smile on her face that looked like the first hint of spring.