Chapter 7: The Farm Village (Part 2)

Lahan’s Brother stared fixedly at the earth. He reached down to check how it felt, and even put a bit of it in his mouth, then spat it out again.

“What do you think?” Maomao asked, watching him work.

A farmer’s day started early. The sun was only just cresting the horizon, but Lahan’s Brother was already up and about. Maomao had been so tired she couldn’t actually sleep well, and then she’d heard the sounds of the farmers up first thing in the morning.

They were in the fields of the farming village where they had arrived the day before. The previous night, they’d asked the headman for permission to come out here, so here Lahan’s Brother was without further ado.

Wheat was beginning to sprout in the field. Maomao wondered if the sheep and goats would eat it, but other than when they were put out to pasture, the animals were safely ensconced within a fence, so maybe it worked out.

“I think the soil is all right, and they keep it watered well. If anything, one could wish for slightly poorer soil around here.”

“It’s better if the soil 
isn’t
 as nutritious?” Chue asked, poking her head over.

And to think, she can’t have gone to sleep earlier than I did last night.

She’d returned sometime in the wee hours—her negotiations must’ve gone long. In spite of it, she seemed perfectly energetic.

Maomao figured it was best not to ask what exactly she had been negotiating about. Chue had insisted Maomao treat her the same way she always did, so Maomao kept quiet.

Lahan’s Brother stood up and surveyed the field. “Unlike most vegetables, potatoes actually grow best if the soil isn’t too rich. Sweet potato plants, if there are too many nutrients in the soil, they just grow a bunch of leaves, and no potato. White potatoes become prone to disease.”

“Ah, yes, of course. By the way, bread by itself isn’t much of a breakfast, so I’m going to make some congee too.”

“Please do, that would be wonder—”

Chue was peeling a sweet potato.

“What do you think you’re doing?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, snatching it away from her faster than lightning.

“Awww,” Chue said, twirling around theatrically.

“This is seed stock! For 
planting
! Not for eating!”

“Yeah, but there’s nothing but wheat around here! There’s hardly even any rice. I thought some potato would bulk it up a bit.”

“Potato congee 
does
 sound good.” Maomao realized her stomach was growling. A nice, hardy congee would be better than bread to start the day.

“We’re going to plant this! You can’t eat it!” Lahan’s Brother said as if scolding a child. He sounded strangely like Frizzy-Glasses. Maybe it was because they were brothers. A nearby sheep looked up and gave a reproving “Baa!” as if to say “Keep it down!”

“Argh... I won’t be able to use this for stock anymore,” Lahan’s Brother groaned, looking miserably at the half-peeled potato.

“It’ll make a delicious breakfast, then!”

“Sigh... I guess it had better.”

“Not by itself, though! I’ll need at least three more!”

“No! Absolutely not!” Lahan’s Brother snapped, stopping Chue before she could do any more mischief. Maomao’s fists clenched. Truly, she saw, this most ordinary man had his place to shine: it was when quipping at someone that Lahan’s Brother came into his own.

“Okay, let’s forget about breakfast for a second. Do you think we can grow crops here?” Personally, Maomao would have liked to enjoy observing a bit more of this back-and-forth, but if she didn’t keep things moving they would never get anywhere.

Lahan’s Brother crossed his arms. “This place is a lot like Shihoku Province. Not as far north as that, but weatherwise, it’s more suited to white potatoes than sweet potatoes. It’s colder than Kaou Province.”

“I guess it does feel chilly. Funny, I thought it was pretty warm in the western capital.”

In fact, my ears hurt a little
, Maomao thought, pinching her nose and blowing to balance them out.

“We’re a lot higher above sea level here than in the western capital.”

“I guess so.”

“Are we really?” Chue took a map out of the folds of her robe. “Miss Chue is an excellent map reader, but this one doesn’t list the elevations. No wonder the air seems so thin here!”

“I know because my father told me all about it,” the normal person said, puffing out his chest.

“The temperature stays high in the western capital because the desert is so close. Around here, it’s a bit cold even during the day,” Chue said.

Maomao was only now starting to appreciate, on a visceral level, how different the climate could be even within a single province. “You really don’t think the potatoes will grow?”

“I’m not sure. For sweet potatoes, temperatures like what Kaou Province gets in spring and early summer are ideal, and there’s nothing quite like that anywhere here, in the desert or on the heights. It might be worth planting some just to see, but I think regular potatoes might be easier to grow. There’s just one problem...”

Lahan’s Brother looked downright stormy. There was clearly something about this situation that he didn’t like. Suddenly he lunged toward the middle of the field and began stomping on the wheat, which was still hardly taller than grass—maybe the farmers had been late planting it.

“What’s that you’re doing? I think they’re going to be very mad at you!” Chue said, although she only stood and watched.

“I’m the one who’s mad! Look how few offshoots there are on this wheat! They haven’t stomped it down at all!”

“Stomped it?” Maomao cocked her head, puzzled, as she watched Lahan’s Brother crisscross the field like an agriculturally inclined crab.

“You have to tread on the wheat to encourage tillers. It makes the roots stronger too, and the wheat more resilient. But look at this field! They haven’t been out here once! And not in any of the other fields either! More tillers means more ears! More ears means more harvest! Yet look at these pathetic crops!”

“Wow. There’s a real farmer for you.”

“Who’s a farmer?!”

Uh... Who else?

Lahan’s Brother continued his ridiculous crabwalk across the wheat field. He might not know it, like it, or want to admit it, but he was a farmer through and through. Chue must have decided the wheat treading looked like fun, because she joined Lahan’s Brother in traipsing back and forth around the field. At which point it became clear that if Maomao didn’t join them, this would never end.

They were still crab-walking as the villagers began to wake up, then began to crowd and gawk, observing the visitors’ bizarre behavior from a safe distance.

Basen popped out from among the crowd. “What are you...doing?” he asked. Personally, Maomao didn’t want to be interrogated about strange behavior by a man with a duck on his shoulder.

“You can’t call what they do around here 
farming
!” Lahan’s Brother exclaimed from his place on the carpet.

“Please keep it down during meals, okay?” Chue said. She was stuffing bread into her cheeks like a squirrel.

Maomao and the others had gone back to their tent and decided to start by getting some breakfast. There was flatbread carrying skewers of sheep meat, and baozi. In the fireplace was a stewpot boiling with a soup of wheat and sheep meat. They were allegedly drinking tea, but it wasn’t like any tea Maomao had ever had. The color was lighter than most and it was made with goat’s milk instead of hot water.

Looks like dairy products and animal meat are the staples here. Not a lot of vegetables. There would probably have been even fewer if this weren’t a farming village.

They all ate together in the large tent. Chue’s congee wasn’t ready in time, so it would be dinner. The peeled potato had been cut thin and was cooking on the hearth.

Basen sat in front of the hearth, so Chue, Maomao, and Lahan’s Brother all got to sit somewhere warm. The others who had come with them, including the soldiers serving as their bodyguards, sat around them in a sort of ring.

The soup was hot but tasted weak; Maomao got some salt from Chue and put a pinch in her bowl. The skewers were far more satisfying than anything you could get from a street stall in the Imperial capital. The bread that served as a tray was tough; you had to break off bits of it and dip it in the soup. Put some warmed-up cheese on top of it, and it was delicious.

As for vegetables, there were a few in the soup and packed into the baozi, but the quantity left something to be desired.

“I’m sure you’re very right. If you’re not going to eat your cheese, can I have it?”

“Hey! I haven’t even answered and you’re already eating it!”