The most efficient thing might have been to split up and each start asking their own questions, but they couldn’t make too much of a show of marching around. The patriarchal spirit was alive and well in I-sei Province, and a strange woman going here, there, and everywhere by herself was unlikely to be well received. They could assign a bodyguard, but it would be Maomao doing most of the talking, so it wouldn’t solve the issue.

Chue doesn’t seem to have any problem doing her own thing, though.

She’d claimed to have business to attend to and had disappeared somewhere. She could be a strange one, but Suiren accepted her, so she was probably safe.

Maomao’s best bet would be to convince Lahan’s Brother or Basen to ask questions on her behalf. If she had to choose one of them, she would choose Lahan’s Brother—Basen had a duck following him around, and the villagers were giving him weird looks.

Luckily, Maomao didn’t have to convince Lahan’s Brother to do anything—he was already doing what she wanted. Namely, asking the villagers whether there had been any damage from insects lately.

“Insects, eh?” said one of the villagers.

“Yes. Bugs weren’t especially bad last year?”

“Hmmm... Well, there’re pests that come every year. Last year just like all the others. They did plenty of damage, sure enough, but we pulled through somehow. We can thank the governor that we have food to put on our tables.”

The governor. Would that be Gyoku-ou? So the grasshoppers had been bad, but not bad enough to consume the entire crop?

“Hrm. All right. One more thing, then. That field over there—whose is that? I’d like to meet them.” Lahan’s Brother pointed at one of the wheat fields.

“What, that? Oh, that’s Nianzhen’s field. He’s an old man, lives out on the edge of town. You can’t miss his place—there’s a shrine right next to it.”

“Thanks. I’ll have a look.”

“You don’t actually mean to go see him, do you?” The villager looked distinctly uncomfortable.

“I do. Some kind of problem with that?”

“Well, look, I won’t stop you. It’s just... The old guy can throw you for a loop sometimes. He’s not a bad person, though. If it doesn’t bother you, I guess that’s fine.”

There was something funny in the villager’s tone. If anything, it made them even more curious.

Maomao and the others headed for the edge of town like the villager had told them.

“Excuse me,” Maomao said, tugging on Lahan’s Brother’s robe.

“Yeah?”

“What makes you so interested in that particular field?”

“Can’t you tell? It’s the only pretty one out there.”

“Pretty?”

There might have been better descriptors for a field, or maybe better things to describe as 
pretty
, but Lahan’s Brother was completely serious.

“The other fields are scattershot, not laid out well—only that one is neatly divided into sections. It’s been stomped too—there’s good, strong wheat growing there.”

“If you say so.”

When he mentioned it, she thought maybe she could see it, but sadly, Maomao didn’t have that much interest in wheat.

Doesn’t look like there’s any mondo grass around here...

Thinking of wheat naturally led her to think of medicinal plants. The plant she had in mind, though, sometimes called snakebeard, really had nothing to do with wheat. Specifically, she thought of the roots. Wheat with ergot could be used medicinally, although its toxic properties tended to get more attention. Since there were no ears yet, anyway, it was hard for her to muster much interest.

There are no good plants anywhere around here!

Maomao was on the verge of suffering from a chronic lack of medicinal herbs, a condition made all the worse by the great variety of medicines she’d been able to encounter since becoming a medical assistant.

Drugs! I want to see some drugs...

Just the thought brought on a sudden episode, her breath growing ragged. There hadn’t even been any good medicine along the roadside on the way here.

“H-Hey, are you all right? You don’t look so good,” Lahan’s Brother said, concerned.

“P-Pardon me. It’s nothing...”

Easy enough to say, but she wanted to see some drugs. To smell them. She would take anything, even if it was poisonous. What was there nearby that might serve as a medicine? Maybe the sheep grazing idly in the fields.

Can you use their horns as medicine? I can’t quite remember...

She thought it was called 
ling yang jiao
, and 
yang
 meant “sheep.” These must have been a different kind of sheep, however, because their horns didn’t look anything like the medicinal ones Maomao had seen.

Maybe they would still have a similar effect...

Arms outstretched like a hungry ghoul, Maomao reached for the sheep nearest the fence.

“Whoa! Hey! I knew there was something wrong with you!” Lahan’s Brother pinned her hands behind her back. Maomao was perfectly aware that her behavior was erratic, but her body seemed to act on its own. She just needed medicine—any medicine!

“M...Medicine,” she rasped, trying to urge Lahan’s Brother to bring her some sort of drug, anything at all.

“Medicine? Are you sick?”

“What’s going on here?” Basen asked, coming over with his duck.

“She says she needs medicine.”

“She does? Come to think of it, Lady Suiren gave me something before we left.” Basen plucked a cloth-wrapped object from the folds of his robe. “She said that if the ‘cat’ started to act strange, I should show her this.”

The package was marked 
One
. He unwrapped it slowly: it contained something dried.

“S-Seahorse!”

Perhaps known better by the name 
dragon’s bastard
. Bizarre underwater life-forms not quite fish and not quite insects.

Basen promptly hid the dried creature away again.

“No!”

“Hmm, let’s see here,” Basen said, perusing a note that was tucked in the package. “Quack!” quacked the duck, reading over his shoulder. “‘If Maomao starts acting funny, show her the contents of this package. However, you must not let her have them immediately. Once the job is done, she may have one of them.’”

It was Basen reading the note, yet somehow Maomao heard Suiren’s voice.

It’s her and that old hag...

Suiren didn’t handle Maomao quite the same as the madam of the Verdigris House, but she had her ways—and they worked. She’d seen Jinshi dangle medicinal prizes in front of the apothecary enough times that she knew what worked on Maomao. The fact that she’d given Basen this thing, right down to the note, proved that she still saw him as a soft little boy who needed a nanny to show him how to get Maomao to do what he wanted.

“You heard the lady,” Basen said. “Have you recovered from your little attack?”

“Yes, sir! All better!” She flung her hands in the air to demonstrate.

“How can that be? Who ever heard of a medicine that works just by looking at it?!” demanded Lahan’s Brother, not failing to interject.

“They say that sickness begins in the spirit. Anyway, don’t worry about it. We need to hurry up and do our job,” said Maomao.

And get that seahorse!

They did say seahorses boosted vitality.

“No, stop. This doesn’t make sense. Something’s wrong here. Something’s 
wrong
 here!”

“I don’t know, Lahan’s Brother. The way you repeat yourself like that reminds me of someone...”

Specifically, someone with tousled hair and glasses.

“I told you, my name isn’t Lahan’s Brother! It’s—”

“Welp, we’d better get going. Time’s a-wasting,” said Basen, interrupting Lahan’s Brother before he could give them his name—it was practically a running gag by now. They would have to be careful it didn’t overstay its welcome.

The farmer had spoken of a shrine, but it didn’t quite look like the shrines Maomao was used to. It was made of brick, and there were no windows. Inside hung a cloth, and in place of a statue there was a painting of the gods on the wall.

Beside the shrine was a shack, seemingly the house the villager had mentioned.

“All right, here goes nothing,” said Lahan’s Brother, who still didn’t look like he thought this was a good idea. He knocked on the door. Then he waited. There was no response. “Maybe he’s out?”

“Do you think he’s at work? I’m sure he has to take care of some sheep or his field or something.” It was almost lunchtime, though, so hopefully he would be back soon.

Just then, a low, raspy voice came from behind them. “Can I help you?”

Maomao and the others turned to find an older man with tanned skin standing there. He had a hoe in his hands and a cloth wrapped around his neck—the very picture of a farmer. His clothes, patched in places, were streaked with dark soil.

Yes, he was a farmer all right—but Basen’s hand immediately went to his sword and he settled into a fighting stance. Maomao saw why.

“Hey, now, what do you think you’re doing? Going to assault a simple farmer?”

The man’s tanned skin was covered with discolorations, some from age, others from long hours spent under the blazing sun. Those, however, were not what had startled Basen.

No, that would be the man’s missing left eye. The cavity yawned in his face, the eyeball simply absent. His right hand, wrapped around the hoe, was missing its pointer finger, and his exposed skin was covered with scars from swords and arrows. Maomao saw why the villager had seemed so intimidated, and why Basen had reacted instinctively. This man had the air not of a farmer, but of a soldier.

“Have you been in the military, sir?” Basen asked, careful to sound polite.

“Nothing as fancy as that. I was just a locust making trouble in the plains.”

Locust...

A striking choice of words. And there was something else that nagged at Maomao.

“Have you been working in the fields?” she asked before she could stop herself. There was the hoe in his hands and the mud on his shirt—she recognized the stains.

“What else d’you think I’d be doing?” the man asked, although he didn’t sound particularly bothered.

Maomao’s question had, indeed, seemed obvious—but there was something that had dawned on her as she looked at the village fields. “I just didn’t think one normally got quite so dirty doing fieldwork.”

You wouldn’t get this filthy even tending the wheat, not at this time of year. The dust of the fields was dry; so long as one didn’t go out of one’s way to use damp earth, it shouldn’t have stuck like this.

“Tell me, did a man named Rikuson come this way?”

“Hrm... You friends of his?” The farmer blinked at them with his one eye, then opened the door to his shed. “Come on inside. I can offer you goat’s milk, at least.”

He leaned his hoe against the wall and ushered them in.

The old man was indeed Nianzhen, and his house was as plain inside as it was outside.

It’s a lot like my house, actually , Maomao thought, picturing her shack in the pleasure quarter. Nianzhen had a hearth, a cot, and a very modest table; that was about it aside from farm implements. His house seemed to be dedicated to farming much the way Maomao’s was to medicine.

Judging by this room, he looks like a pretty simple man.

Those scars all over his body, though—those didn’t seem like the marks of a man who’d made his living as an honest farmer.

There were three chairs inside. Nianzhen let the guests sit, while he stayed standing and poured goat’s milk into chipped teacups. The duck pecked at the dirt floor. Some grain must have spilled there.

“You’re right—a man named Rikuson did come through here. Would’ve been about ten days ago.” Just a day before Maomao and the others met him in the western capital.

“Do you know what he was here for?” Maomao asked. She’d originally planned to let Basen or Lahan’s Brother do the talking, but since she had brought up Rikuson, she would handle this conversation.

“What he was here for? All he did was grab a hoe and help me plow.”

“Plow? You mean, to get ready for the spring planting?”

Wheat could be grown in two seasons. Seeds planted in winter could be harvested in spring or early summer, while seeds planted in spring could be harvested in autumn.

“No, no. I do need to do the spring planting, but that wasn’t what this was about.”

Nianzhen put the goat’s milk on the table and slid the cups toward Maomao and the others. Basen looked like he wasn’t too sure about this unfamiliar drink, but Maomao was grateful for the opportunity to wet her throat. It was normal goat’s milk—lukewarm, but without anything weird in it.

“Might sound a little overblown, but I had him help me with the ritual.”

“Ritual?” Maomao asked. Basen and Lahan’s Brother traded a look, as confused as she was. “You mean some sort of ceremony to pray for a good harvest?”

“More like to prevent a bad one.”

“I’m sorry... This is all a little difficult for me to follow. Do you think you could explain more thoroughly?”

In response, Nianzhen sat on the bed, his tongue sticking out of his mouth. His less than refined manners were showing. “You lot willing to listen to an old man prattle for a bit? The villagers sure aren’t.”

“Listen, 
sir
, we don’t have much time to spare,” Basen said, growing annoyed.

“Oh, well, pardon me.” Nianzhen lay down and rolled over on the cot.

Maomao got to her feet, holding up a hand to stop Basen. “Sir, I’m sorry. Please tell us what you have to say.” She bowed her head. Apologies were free, after all. If he was going to get all bent out of shape about this, she might as well say sorry.

“Hrrm, I don’t know,” Nianzhen said. From someone else, it might have sounded playful. From him, it came off as sadistic. “I don’t think I feel like it anymore.”

“You watch your attitude!” Basen was about to surge forward, but Maomao stopped him again. Lahan’s Brother, unused to conflict, had become a bystander.

I know he’s hotheaded, but I wish he would stop picking fights. She knew Basen’s strength, and highly doubted an old man would stand a chance against him. But who knows? Sometimes these stubborn old bastards turn out to be tougher than you’d think. Maybe Basen could best the old man physically, but what if he simply refused to admit defeat and clammed up?

That would be bad for us.

She had a feeling that Nianzhen was just being stubborn. He’d let them into his house when they’d mentioned Rikuson—she suspected there was actually something he wanted to get off his chest.

“What can we do to get you to talk to us?” Maomao said, as humble as she could be.

“Hrm. Well, how about a little guessing game?”

“Sir? What exactly are we supposed to guess?”

“Simple. What I used to be.”

Yeah, simple. If only I knew what he meant.

Basen and Lahan’s Brother were still looking at each other. The duck did what Basen couldn’t and pecked at the old man’s feet.

“All right, I’ll take a shot,” Basen said, but Nianzhen waved his hand with too few fingers.

“I’m not asking you, kid. I’m talking to the girl there.”

“K-
Kid?
” Basen forced himself to keep it together. To an old, heavily scarred man like this, he really was nothing but a young whippersnapper.

So only Maomao had the right to answer. The question became, what should she say?

Nianzhen... It’s a good, strong name. It meant “to intuit the truth.” I hope he’s as honest as his name suggests, and that everything he’s told us is true , she thought, reviewing in her mind what he had said. Nianzhen had called himself a “locust,” not a favorable bug for a farmer.

So he savages crops?

Nianzhen lacked his pointer finger as well as his left eye.

You don’t usually get hurt that bad as a farmer. But he says he’s never been in the army.

He must at least have been in some kind of battle. Several, judging by the extent of his injuries.

Without his finger, he wouldn’t be able to use a weapon. Especially a bow...

Maomao found herself thinking about the bandits who had attacked them the day before. They and their broken arms were probably in the hands of the authorities by now.

Only a couple outcomes for robbers like them. Hanging, for one. The best they can hope for is mutilation...

Then she remembered Nianzhen saying that Rikuson had helped him with a ceremony of some kind.

“Nianzhen,” she said.

“Yeah?” His attitude defied her to guess. Lahan’s Brother was looking at Maomao with what seemed to be indignation, not that it mattered to her. Maybe he didn’t like that she already knew this random old guy’s name even though they’d met just a few minutes earlier.

Not the problem right now. Maomao took in a breath and let the words out in a rush: “Were you a human sacrifice, sir?”

Everyone froze.

“What kind of answer is that?!” Basen demanded.

“You don’t know the expression? It’s when someone is sacrificed while still alive.”

“Of course I know that! What I 
don’t
 know is why you think it has anything to do with this old man. He’s obviously still alive!”

Whereas proper sacrifices tended to end up dead.

Maomao, however, stood by her answer. “He didn’t ask 
why
. Only 
what
.”

She looked at Nianzhen, who showed none of Basen’s disbelief or annoyance. Instead, he looked somehow satisfied. “Yes,” he said, “I see. A sacrifice. Maybe that’s what I was.”

Nianzhen let out a long breath and narrowed his single remaining eye.

“Would the three of you be so kind as to listen to the ramblings of a foolish old man?” His tone was light, but there was deep emotion in his eye.

“If you would be so kind as to let us,” Maomao replied. This time Basen and Lahan’s Brother, mindful not to upset Nianzhen again, bowed their heads respectfully.