“
Why
 don’t they know how to cultivate the wheat? I’m telling you, that’s the question! Do you realize how much better the harvest would be if they stomped the crop?”

Chue had snatched the cheese from Lahan’s Brother’s plate in a single swift motion.

She doesn’t have to do that. Cheese was one thing there was plenty of. She seemed to be taking from Lahan’s Brother just to get under his skin.

As Maomao and the others ate, they discussed what had happened in the fields earlier that day.

“We’re supposed to be out here for an inspection of the farms. So what did you see, Lahan’s Brother?” asked Basen, who already seemed to regard “Lahan’s Brother” as his name. He might normally have been more punctilious about asking what he was really called—it was almost as if there was some supernatural force at work.

“I’m not... I told you, my name is—”

“You brought those seed potatoes. Presumably you mean to plant them,” Maomao interrupted.

“I told you, Lahan said to plant them if there was anywhere good. And since he asked me, I feel like I have to see his request through, even if he is my no-account younger brother...”

He’s a surprisingly stand-up guy for someone with such a terrible family.

Nonetheless, Lahan’s Brother exuded something that made one want to mess with him.

“Okay, so you mentioned the wheat fields. Is there some sort of problem?”

“Big ones! Do these people here actually believe they’ve set up those fields properly?” Lahan’s Brother took a slug of soup.

“I admit I’m no expert, but do they really deserve to be talked about like that just because they didn’t do this wheat stomping or whatever?” Basen asked.

Maomao agreed with him. Wheat stomping improved the crop, no doubt, but it wasn’t as if the wheat wouldn’t grow without it. Maybe these people were busy with other things, and wheat stomping just fell by the wayside. Raising livestock was more important in I-sei Province, anyway.

“It’s not just the stomping. Their planting methods are all over the place. I understand that they’ve done direct sowing, but you need to at least space the seeds evenly! That’s not even to mention that they started planting too late in the season. And they need more fertilizer—lots more! The soil color was so uneven!”

“Wow, you really know your stuff. Potato?”

“I do not 
know my stuff
! And I’m sick of eating potatoes!”

Maomao had no such objections; she was happy to take the baked sweet potato from Chue. It was perfectly sweet and delicious on its own—but spread a little butter on it, and it took on an extra dimension of richness. Chue evidently shared Maomao’s appreciation, because she discreetly took a few of them, cut them up, and started cooking them.

Maomao understood what Lahan’s Brother was getting at, but even she could think of a possible rejoinder. “Don’t farming methods vary from region to region? Maybe with them raising so much livestock here, wheat isn’t considered that important. Why develop refined techniques for working with a secondary crop?”

“You’re not wrong. I’m saying that the problem here isn’t ignorance, it’s indifference. They’ll never get much of a harvest to speak of with what they’re doing now. These people know the techniques, they just aren’t bothering to use them.”

“Because they have other sources of income, right? Is it that big a deal?” Basen asked, sipping some milk tea.

“That’s what I’m saying!”

“You mean, why would they go out of their way to do bad farming when they can just make money other ways, is that it?” Maomao said. She thought she saw what Lahan’s Brother was getting at.

“Y...Yes. That’s what I mean,” Lahan’s Brother said, relaxing somewhat now that he finally felt someone understood him.

“I don’t get it,” said Basen.

“This isn’t making sense to Miss Chue either. Explain in a way she can understand,” said Chue.

“If they can feed themselves entirely with nomadic grazing, why not do that?” Maomao said. “Settling down in one place to plant fields just makes it that much harder to raise livestock. Which implies there was some advantage to settled living that made the trade-off worthwhile.”

“Yeah. You’d run yourself ragged, trying to do this kind of thing while you traveled,” Basen observed.

“That’s right. It’s hardly unusual for nomadic herdspeople to settle down and become farmers—including, it would seem, the owner of this tent. So did they become farmers because they had no other choice, or because they thought there was some specific benefit to it? If they did it voluntarily, for the advantages, wouldn’t you expect them to be more interested in improving their harvests?”

Lahan’s Brother nodded assiduously at Maomao’s explanation, although the other two continued to look baffled.

“I guess I’m not much for explaining. Does that make any sense?” she asked.

“I mean... I get that something is off, here,” Basen said.

“It’s hard to put into words, isn’t it?” Chue said.

Maomao groaned and took a bite of her potato, which had gone cold. There was nothing else remotely sweet around here, so the potato’s sweetness was that much more pronounced.

Just then, Maomao looked toward the entrance of the tent. A couple of kids were peering in at the visitors with interest. A boy and a girl around ten years of age, probably siblings.

“Want some?” Maomao asked.

The kids looked a little intimidated, but reached out for the sweet potato, which they’d never seen before. They each took a bite, and their eyes went wide.

“Can we have more?” they asked.

“You may. But maybe you could answer some questions for me first,” said Maomao. Since the kids had come right to them, this would be the perfect chance to dig up some information.

After breakfast, they toured the village with the kids.

“Are your families looking after the fields like they should? They’re not cutting corners, are they?” Chue asked the siblings, not mincing words.

The brother and sister shared a look.

“But you can’t cut corners in a field, can you?”

“Yeah, can you?”

“I don’t think kids this young are going to understand what you’re getting at, Miss Chue.”

“You think not, Miss Maomao?” She gave the kids another cooked potato.

“The grown-ups say they can get money for starting fields. I don’t know if that’s what it means to cut corners, though.”

“Money? You mean from selling the wheat?”

The older brother shook his head. “Nuh-uh. Um... They say you get the money even if you don’t grow the crops, so life’s easy...”

“Hey! You kids! We told you to stay away from the guests!” one of the adults roared, and the siblings ran off, frightened—although not enough to drop their potatoes.

“No! Wait!” Maomao called after them, but it was too late. They were already gone.

So they get paid even if they don’t grow anything? That sounded fishy. If it was true, it would explain why they didn’t feel any compulsion to look after the crops.

“I’m sorry. Did those children do something wrong?” Maomao asked.

“No, nothing,” the villager said, although he continued to give Maomao and the others an apologetic look. In that case, Maomao wished he wouldn’t have shouted. He’d driven away two very pliant young informers. Maomao would have liked to ask them a little more about the money supposedly in those fields.

It doesn’t look like they’re hiding anything , she thought as they continued to walk around the village. To all appearances, it was quiet, peaceful. Unremarkable. There were no commercial shops to speak of; people mostly supported themselves. They said a merchant came by about once every ten days. The villagers proved to be kind and friendly. It was hard to imagine they were doing anything wrong.

Maybe the kids just misunderstood something, and now we’re overthinking it.

There was one man, however, who seemed to be taking this far harder than Maomao was.

“Poor
 Gege
! You look ready to smash something. Try putting on a smile!” said Chue, ever ready to give Lahan’s Brother some grief.

Lahan’s Brother scowled and looked at the village fields. He carried a bag full of seed potatoes. Nominally they were here on a tour of inspection, but he’d come along seeking a good opportunity to introduce this new crop—and if he was going to give people something new to grow, no doubt he would have liked them to be a little more interested in growing it.

Lahan’s Brother always vehemently denied being a farmer, yet he was deeply devoted to the agricultural arts. He was your ordinary, good, paradoxical man. He might also have denied being ordinary, but the principle that motivated his behavior seemed as normal as the next person’s.

The world is full of elder sons who aren’t actually interested in inheriting family headship , Maomao thought, but she figured that if she pointed that out to Lahan’s Brother, he would only get angry.