“If, instead, we went in two groups, one of which was not only smaller but included someone who obviously looked like money, the bandits would be more likely to attack that group. Two women, one man—the man being Master Basen, who despite his outrageous strength still has that baby face and a relatively small build for a soldier. When they said to leave the women, they weren’t thinking of selling us, were they? It was about the potential for ransom.”

“That’s all very clever, Miss Maomao, but if it’s true, how did Miss Chue draw those bandits out at exactly the right moment? You can wear all the nice cloaks you want, but they were obviously waiting for us. They showed up at the perfect time, you might say.”

“That would actually explain why you were talking to one of the guides earlier. Here’s the third thing that made me suspicious: you spoke to one of the guides as soon as we arrived in the village. I think it’s reasonable to assume that you thought one of them was crooked before you ever hired them.” She thought of how the man paled as Chue spoke. “Before that first group left, you told each of the guides different things, didn’t you? Like which watering hole the second group would use. You pull out a map and say you want to make sure of where you can take a rest. Convenient way to let them know where you’re going to be, isn’t it?”

There were any number of ways the guide might have slipped information to the bandits, even if Maomao didn’t know exactly which one he’d used. Who knows. Could have been pigeons, like the White Lady.

“You deliberately hired a shady guide, someone you thought was in cahoots with bandits. Then you told each of them that you would be resting at a different location, so that you knew where you might be attacked. Was that so you could be sure which of the guides was clean? What if they’d both been dirty?”

Chue raised her hands in a gesture of surrender. “It was just the one of them!” she chirped. “I knew exactly who the other one was.”

“Was this on the Moon Prince’s orders?” Maomao had begged Jinshi to use her like a tool, so a situation like this wasn’t completely unexpected. But it was out of character for him.

It probably really wasn’t Jinshi, then. Did Chue belong to some chain of command that didn’t include him?

“You make Miss Chue’s life very hard, Miss Maomao, being so smart. Did you know that?”

“You don’t make my life any easier, Miss Chue, with the way I never know what you’re thinking.”

“Miss Maomao, I have two requests.”

“Miss Chue is always her cheerful, easygoing Chue self, so please always treat Miss Chue as you 
would
 treat Miss Chue.” She pulled out a string of little flags. 
Shoop
.

“I’m...not sure what that means, but okay.” Maomao took the string and let it dangle from her fingers, unsure what else to do with it.

“In that case, Miss Maomao, Miss Chue has one other request for you. And it comes with a question.”

“Yes?”

“What made you think that that lovely, expensive cloak might 
not
 have come from the Moon Prince?” She seemed genuinely curious.

“I just thought that if he gave me something like that, it would have been of fine make, but more subdued. More practical.”

“Is that all?”

“That’s where we are right now.”

Jinshi had started to understand Maomao’s preferences.

Chue narrowed her eyes and looked to the entrance of the tent.

“Terribly sorry to disturb you,” a woman said from outside.

“Yes? Come in,” Maomao said, and there was a rustling of felt.

“Excuse me,” said a middle-aged woman, peering in. She was holding reins. “I’ve brought three goats as you asked. What would you like me to do with them?”

“Great! Thank you. Here’s payment.” Chue pressed some coins into the woman’s hand. She must have asked for these animals before coming to the tent.

Is she planning to take those goats home?

If she just wanted to eat them, it would be cheaper to buy some that had already been killed and butchered—and she wouldn’t need three of them. Between the goats and the duck, they were on their way to having their own farm.

Chue took the goats’ reins and dug through her luggage until she came up with a heavy-looking bag.

“What’s that?”

“It’s salt! We’re not near the ocean, and you can’t get rock salt around here, so salt is a treasured commodity. One our goat friends happen to love!”

“And, uh, what is this salt for?” Maomao couldn’t imagine where Chue was going with this.

Chue grinned. “Negotiating! With the goats and the salt. Miss Chue is a pacifist, you see. She likes to do things the quiet way when she can. I’m sleepy, but I’ve got to take care of a job. You just rest your poor, tired self, Miss Maomao.”

Chue twirled back toward the entrance of the tent, and then she was gone, goats and all.