Chue clapped her hands and called, “Miss Maomao! Lunch is ready!”

Maomao and her companions sat on a blanket, eating meat and pickled vegetables sandwiched between pieces of bread. Maomao found she had sweated profusely despite only riding along; her body was ravenous for water and salt. It made the pickled vegetables taste very good indeed.

No sooner had he finished eating than Basen started studying a map. He took a floating compass out of his bag and floated it in the water. Maomao and Chue watched him.

Maomao asked the obvious question. “What good is a map out on the open plains?”

“It’s better than nothing, but you’re right that there aren’t a lot of landmarks out here,” Chue commented. “Between the compass and the position of the sun, I think it looks like we should edge north a little bit. As long as there’s nothing to block the view, we should be able to see houses—that’ll be our destination.” She might sound flippant, but she was surprisingly capable. Evidently, she could even do land navigation. Basen looked away, seeming to feel a little awkward.

“Anything you like, Miss Maomao.”

“Why don’t we have a local guide?”

Frankly, she wished she had asked sooner. She’d figured they were just going to a nearby village—they weren’t leaving Li or anything—and that a guide wouldn’t be necessary, but this was turning into a more elaborate trip than she had expected. A long journey was never precisely safe, even within national borders. It was best to have someone who knew the territory inside and out.

“Funny you should ask that,” Chue said, glancing around. Basen was looking too, his gaze hard. His hand was on the hilt of his sword and he was obviously ready to leap into battle.

I don’t like where this is going.

Chue stood in front of Maomao. “Okay! Just stay right there, Miss Maomao; don’t move an inch.”

Maomao discovered that they were surrounded by strange men; she almost hadn’t seen them emerge. They were scruffy-looking types who spoke Linese with a strong accent. As for what they said, it was your standard threats, make-with-the-cash demands, and so on. And of course, they wanted to be left with the women.

These were bandits if Maomao had ever seen them.

Wonder if I have any particular value as a woman. Neither Maomao nor Chue was especially attractive; she doubted they would fetch much of a price if the bandits tried to sell them. It wasn’t a particularly happy thought, and her heart was starting to race. She took a few slow, deep breaths to try to calm herself.

“Miss Maomao, feel free to close your eyes. If they try anything, Miss Chue will use her married-woman appeal to get us out of it!”

She seemed very confident. In fact, she seemed to be looking down her low-set nose at them.

Maomao, however, wasn’t eager to close her eyes. She reached into her bag and found a sewing needle and some bug repellent. They wouldn’t be enough to do any serious damage, but they might set their attackers back on their heels for a moment.

As it happened, though, they didn’t need Chue’s allure or Maomao’s sewing needle.

There was an audible 
crack
, and then Bandit No. 1 went flying clean past Maomao.

There was a noticeable 
crunch
, and Bandit No. 2 collapsed to the ground, holding his arm and writhing.

There was a distinct 
snap
, and Bandit No. 3 went down, spitting a mix of saliva, blood, and teeth.

There was no restraint. A fight in a stage play would have lasted longer. Frankly, it almost felt like too little to describe.

Basen had reached for his sword—but that didn’t mean he was going to use it.

He took them all out bare-handed! thought Maomao, flabbergasted. She took several more breaths, then came back to herself and rushed over to Basen. “Let me see your hand!”

Basen, looking a little surprised, slipped off his glove and held out his hand. The fingers didn’t look broken, and the wrist seemed intact. In addition to being preternaturally strong, Basen, so Maomao had heard, was less susceptible to pain than most people. It meant he could sometimes injure himself with his displays of strength.

I don’t understand it.

After all those terrible noises, she would have expected the person administering the beatings to at least have hurt their hand. There had to be some reason Basen was completely unharmed.

She took his glove and soon discovered the explanation. Outwardly it was made of wool and looked quite soft, but it felt heavy. There was some kind of metal inside. Basen’s brute strength combined with a weighted glove? It was almost enough to make her feel sorry for the bandits.

Speaking of the bandits, Chue was flitting from one to the next, tying them up. Then she tied the three of them together before she put up her feet and wiped the sweat from her brow with a sigh.

“What are we going to do with them?” Maomao asked.