Her question was innocent, but Chue replied, “What are we supposed to do with them? We can’t take them with us. We’ll leave them here. When we get to the village, we can ask someone to come get them.” She didn’t look like she cared very much.

“I don’t like this, though,” Basen said, folding his arms and furrowing his brow.

“I know what you mean,” Maomao said, for once finding herself feeling the same way he did. What if the men were eaten by a wolf or something while the travelers were on their way to the village? It was hardly outside the realm of possibility.

I don’t think I’d sleep well knowing I’d been a part of that, even if they are crooks.

Basen walked over to the bandits and took one of them by the arm. Then there came another unpleasant 
crack
.

Oof...

Apparently what Basen hadn’t liked was the possibility that the bandits might escape. A couple of them wet themselves as he mercilessly snapped each of their arms. He’d presumably chosen their arms and not their legs so that they could walk when they were being taken to prison.

Never realized I was the nice one , Maomao thought. She looked at the bandits and mentally urged them to give up their life of crime.

Their journey was quiet after that.

I thought there might be more bugs. Oh well.

There were a few; they were traveling across the plains, after all. It was hardly a swarm, though; she just spotted a grasshopper popping through the grass now and then.

Maybe we didn’t have to worry about a plague after all? If there weren’t tons of grasshoppers in the western capital, well, nothing could be better.

About the time they reached the next resting point, they caught up with Lahan’s Brother and his potatoes. For reasons Maomao couldn’t guess, there was a duck atop the horse pulling the wagon, quacking out orders.

“Jofu! You’re here too?”

“Quack!”

The moment the duck saw Basen, she flapped down off the horse’s head. Her eyes seemed to sparkle, and Maomao would have sworn she saw a blizzard of flower petals behind her.

“I tried to leave her at the mansion, but she insisted on coming with,” Lahan’s Brother said. Maomao was the one who had originally foisted the duck on him, so she couldn’t really complain.

“I have to admit, I’ve grown quite fond of her,” Lahan’s Brother said, clearly smitten. “She’s very intelligent—and very helpful. She gladly eats bugs.”

“Sounds like you had a nice, quiet trip,” Maomao said. 
Some
 people obviously hadn’t encountered any bandits.

“What? You’ve always been peevish, but now you’re downright prickly.”

She took exception to Lahan’s Brother’s tone, but nonetheless she decided to indulge him with an explanation of what had happened. “We were attacked by bandits.”

“They really have those out here?” Lahan’s Brother asked, the blood draining from his face.

Ahh! Now that’s how a normal person would react. As she savored Lahan’s Brother’s response she looked at Chue, who had been unconcerned by the attack. Chue seemed downright used to being threatened by criminals, or at the very least unsurprised. Like this was all somehow part of the plan.

Lahan’s Brother’s party consisted of one wagon full of cargo, Lahan’s Brother himself, two sturdy-looking soldiers for guards, three farmers probably there to help, as well as two local guides. And one duck.

Maomao was no logistician, but two guides seemed like one more than they needed. Maybe one of them was supposed to be with us? Come to think of it, Chue had dodged her question about having a local guide.

They set off again after this second break. It turned out the village was very close. Modest houses were arranged on either side of a river, the surrounding area peppered with trees and farm fields. There was a gently sloping mountain behind the village, but unlike the mountains Maomao knew, it looked as if the grassy plain had simply risen up into a hill. The little white spots she saw were probably sheep. The black ones, maybe oxen. Judging by the number of houses, there couldn’t be more than three hundred people in this village.

As they approached, they were greeted by lowing oxen. Some of the sheep were still fluffy, while others were recently shorn. It was right in the middle of shearing season. The village children, no strangers to physical labor it seemed, were collecting sheep patties into baskets.

“What’s that about?” Basen asked, giving the kids a funny look. Maomao felt they could ask him the very same question, considering he had a duck on his head.

“They use the sheep dung for fuel, I believe. And if you tuck it under your bed, it’s supposed to keep you warm,” she explained.

“Under your bed?!”

“Sure! You didn’t know? Silly little brother,” Chue drawled, not missing an opportunity to give him grief. “Little brother” seemed to be her default name for him when she was tweaking him.

The village was surrounded by a moat and a brick wall. Maybe the bandits didn’t constrain themselves to attacking travelers.

Basen talked to someone at the entrance, and they were quickly allowed in—maybe a messenger had preceded them. The duck hopped off his head and trotted behind him.

An important-looking person Maomao took to be the village headman came out to greet them.

“Oh! Excuse meee!” Before Basen could say anything to him, Chue started chatting volubly with the headman. The headman’s eyes glinted, and he shouted to one of the guides. Chue was smiling broadly about something, while the guide grew paler and paler.

It was impossible to miss the charge in the air. One of the soldier-guards from Lahan’s Brother’s group stood ready behind Chue. She was still smiling and the guide still seemed calm, but it was obvious that the man was being taken away.

Ahh, now I get it.
 Maomao crossed her arms and watched them lead the guide off somewhere.

“Hey, what’s going on?” asked Lahan’s Brother, ever the straight man.

“I suspect they want to ask him for a discount. He promised us a safe route, and yet we got attacked by bandits.”

“Okay, but is it really fair to take it out on him?”

“Fair question, but it sounds like this was the guide’s special road. Guaranteed to be perfectly safe. They even paid extra to learn about it.”

“That’s silly. There’s nothing but grass in every direction. It’s not the guide’s fault they let him dupe them.”

He was right about that. Maomao was making it all up, in fact, saying whatever came to mind. Talk of bandits was too stimulating for Lahan’s Brother, so she changed the subject. While they talked, Basen went up to the headman. His duck, like a faithful dog, followed behind him.

After the two conversed for a while, Basen came over to Maomao. “The headman is going to show us somewhere we can stay tonight.”

“All right.”

“I appreciate your help,” Lahan’s Brother said politely to Basen. He was the son of a distinguished household, no matter how it might seem, and he’d been raised with proper manners. If Lakan hadn’t betrayed his own family, Lahan’s Brother might have been a soldier himself by now.

“Of course. By the way...” Basen looked at Lahan’s Brother. “What should I call you?”

Basen didn’t know Lahan’s Brother’s name either.

“Hoh!” Lahan’s Brother’s eyes filled with hope. This was the moment he had been waiting for.

“I think you can just call him Lahan’s Brother,” Maomao said.

“Hey!” Lahan’s Brother said, clapping a hand on Maomao’s shoulder.

“All right. Lahan’s Brother. Easy to remember. I like it.”

“Listen, you!” Forgetting his manners, Lahan’s Brother wheeled on Basen.

“So there you have it. He’s Lahan’s brother. That’s what he’s called, and that’s what he is. I think you know Lahan, yes? Lahan’s Brother isn’t as quirky as his brother; his brother’s a harmless, normal person. He’s also a professional potato farmer, so we can leave this to him.”

“Who’s normal?! And who’s a farmer?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, but if he wasn’t a farmer, then what was he? She’d seen him tending those sprawling fields—he could afford to take a little more pride in his work.

“I hear you. If he’s a relative of Master Lakan’s, he deserves to be treated respectfully.”

Maomao had the distinct sense that Basen glanced at her as he said this, but she decided to ignore it. He didn’t seem to view her as falling into that same category.

Frankly, I could almost like that about him. Basen didn’t always treat her “respectfully,” to borrow a phrase, but he was easy to work with.

“Ahem...” said the man who looked like the village headman. Apparently that’s what he really was. “May I show you to your quarters?”

“Oh, yes, sure. If you would?”

Relieved, the headman led them to an open space in the middle of the village. “You can use this,” he said, pointing to a portable tent like the ones the nomads used. “This tent belonged to someone who settled here years ago, and it’s still serving its purpose. We keep it warm inside too. The women can stay in the small tent next to it.”

Maomao poked her head in to find that it was indeed warm, made from a frame that looked something like a net covered in felt. There was a carpet on the ground and a fireplace in the middle. Given the lack of windows, one might expect that to result in bad air quality, but a chimney extended from the fireplace to allow the smoke to escape. There was a pile of brown things beside the hearth—maybe the sheep pies the kids had been collecting. The carpet was worked with some kind of pattern. It might not be much, but the village was clearly trying to extend the best hospitality it could.

“Good timing—we were just about to break it down,” the headman said.

“Break it down?” Maomao asked.

“Yes; you see, we had a visitor just the other day as well.”

“Did his name happen to be Rikuson?”

“Y-Yes. Is he an acquaintance of yours?”

Oops, better look alive.

Just as she sat up, Chue came in.

“Lovely?”