The village was surrounded by a moat and a brick wall. Maybe the bandits didn’t constrain themselves to attacking travelers.

Basen talked to someone at the entrance, and they were quickly allowed in—maybe a messenger had preceded them. The duck hopped off his head and trotted behind him.

“Oh! Excuse meee!” Before Basen could say anything to him, Chue started chatting volubly with the headman. The headman’s eyes glinted, and he shouted to one of the guides. Chue was smiling broadly about something, while the guide grew paler and paler.

It was impossible to miss the charge in the air. One of the soldier-guards from Lahan’s Brother’s group stood ready behind Chue. She was still smiling and the guide still seemed calm, but it was obvious that the man was being taken away.

Ahh, now I get it.
 Maomao crossed her arms and watched them lead the guide off somewhere.

“Hey, what’s going on?” asked Lahan’s Brother, ever the straight man.

“I suspect they want to ask him for a discount. He promised us a safe route, and yet we got attacked by bandits.”

“Okay, but is it really fair to take it out on him?”

“Fair question, but it sounds like this was the guide’s special road. Guaranteed to be perfectly safe. They even paid extra to learn about it.”

“That’s silly. There’s nothing but grass in every direction. It’s not the guide’s fault they let him dupe them.”

He was right about that. Maomao was making it all up, in fact, saying whatever came to mind. Talk of bandits was too stimulating for Lahan’s Brother, so she changed the subject. While they talked, Basen went up to the headman. His duck, like a faithful dog, followed behind him.

After the two conversed for a while, Basen came over to Maomao. “The headman is going to show us somewhere we can stay tonight.”

“I appreciate your help,” Lahan’s Brother said politely to Basen. He was the son of a distinguished household, no matter how it might seem, and he’d been raised with proper manners. If Lakan hadn’t betrayed his own family, Lahan’s Brother might have been a soldier himself by now.

“Of course. By the way...” Basen looked at Lahan’s Brother. “What should I call you?”

Basen didn’t know Lahan’s Brother’s name either.

“Hoh!” Lahan’s Brother’s eyes filled with hope. This was the moment he had been waiting for.

“I think you can just call him Lahan’s Brother,” Maomao said.

“Hey!” Lahan’s Brother said, clapping a hand on Maomao’s shoulder.

“All right. Lahan’s Brother. Easy to remember. I like it.”

“Listen, you!” Forgetting his manners, Lahan’s Brother wheeled on Basen.

“So there you have it. He’s Lahan’s brother. That’s what he’s called, and that’s what he is. I think you know Lahan, yes? Lahan’s Brother isn’t as quirky as his brother; his brother’s a harmless, normal person. He’s also a professional potato farmer, so we can leave this to him.”

“Who’s normal?! And who’s a farmer?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, but if he wasn’t a farmer, then what was he? She’d seen him tending those sprawling fields—he could afford to take a little more pride in his work.

“I hear you. If he’s a relative of Master Lakan’s, he deserves to be treated respectfully.”

Maomao had the distinct sense that Basen glanced at her as he said this, but she decided to ignore it. He didn’t seem to view her as falling into that same category.

Frankly, I could almost like that about him. Basen didn’t always treat her “respectfully,” to borrow a phrase, but he was easy to work with.

“Ahem...” said the man who looked like the village headman. Apparently that’s what he really was. “May I show you to your quarters?”

“Oh, yes, sure. If you would?”

Relieved, the headman led them to an open space in the middle of the village. “You can use this,” he said, pointing to a portable tent like the ones the nomads used. “This tent belonged to someone who settled here years ago, and it’s still serving its purpose. We keep it warm inside too. The women can stay in the small tent next to it.”

Maomao poked her head in to find that it was indeed warm, made from a frame that looked something like a net covered in felt. There was a carpet on the ground and a fireplace in the middle. Given the lack of windows, one might expect that to result in bad air quality, but a chimney extended from the fireplace to allow the smoke to escape. There was a pile of brown things beside the hearth—maybe the sheep pies the kids had been collecting. The carpet was worked with some kind of pattern. It might not be much, but the village was clearly trying to extend the best hospitality it could.

“Good timing—we were just about to break it down,” the headman said.

“Break it down?” Maomao asked.

“Yes; you see, we had a visitor just the other day as well.”

“Did his name happen to be Rikuson?”

“Y-Yes. Is he an acquaintance of yours?”

Oops, better look alive.

Just as she sat up, Chue came in.