Maomao nodded: she knew it. What she still didn’t know was what he’d come here for. She hadn’t seen Rikuson since that first day, so she hadn’t had a chance to ask him.

“It’s already late, so I think for today we should eat and then get some rest. I’ll post a guard outside your tent. That sound all right?” Basen asked.

“Yes, thank you, that’s fine,” said Maomao. She picked up her belongings and moved them to the smaller tent. She slipped off her shoes as she went inside, the fluffy carpet greeting her feet. There were several layers of felt underneath it. She took off her cloak and hung it on something that jutted out of the wall. Then she tossed herself spread eagle on the carpet.

She gave herself a quick smack on the cheek—the tent was so warm inside, and the carpet was so soft, that she felt like she might doze right off.

“That looks nice, Miss Maomao. I think I’ll join you!” She flung herself down on the carpet and grinned, blissful.

“Before you fall asleep, Miss Chue, can I ask you something?” Maomao tried to organize the thoughts that had been whirling in her head all day. As she considered, she found herself adopting a formal seated position, feet tucked under her behind. Chue mirrored her posture.

“Yep, of course. What is it?” She looked exactly like she always did.

“Those bandits... You were behind that, weren’t you, Miss Chue?”

Chue didn’t so much as blink at the question. “Whatever do you mean, Miss Maomao?” She cocked her head.

“Sorry. That sounded worse than I meant. What I was trying to say was, you expected the bandits to attack, and you had us come second, as bait, to minimize the harm they would do.”

Still Chue looked unfazed. “What in the world gave you that idea?”

She didn’t seem to be asking purely to throw Maomao off. She enjoyed hearing the answer.

“Well, first, I wondered why we were split into two groups at all. At first I thought maybe you were just trying to be nice to me and make sure I could get here as quickly as possible. I could see the same impulse behind the way Ji—er, I mean, the Moon Prince got us that comfortable saddle. But I couldn’t shake the question: If we were going to split into two groups, why would both of the guides go with just one of them? It didn’t make sense.”

“Hoh! Hmm!”

Chue seemed like a good map reader, but even for her, a guide would be indispensable in unfamiliar territory. It was almost like she had gone out of her way not to have one.

“Secondly, that cloak,” Maomao said, pointing at the garment hanging on the wall.

“Aww, didn’t you like it?”

“I liked it very much. It kept me quite warm. The thing that struck me, though, was how lovely it is.”

Maomao looked at the cloak Chue was wearing. “I know you like to be showy, Miss Chue, so if you had two cloaks I might have expected you to take the more elaborate one for yourself. But instead you wore the plainer one.”

“Well, yes, but Miss Chue 
does
 know how to behave herself around her betters.” Her tone suggested otherwise.

“Yes, and the fact that you gave me the nicer cloak implied that it was from the Moon Prince. You bolstered that impression by talking about how he had given you the saddle. You practically had me convinced the cloak was from him too—but it wasn’t, was it?”

Maomao’s cloak had been pleasant to the touch. Covered in delicate embroidery, it would have been obvious what a fine piece of clothing it was, even at a distance.

“A cloak like that is like saying to the bandits ‘Please! Rob me!’ And by wearing a slightly plainer outfit, you made yourself look like the mark’s lady-in-waiting.”

“Hee hee hee! Miss Chue is practically your lady-in-waiting, Miss Maomao. So what you’re saying is that I separated us into two groups, then deliberately gave you a nicer cloak so that they would attack you?”

“Not so much attack me specifically. It’s more like you wanted to put all the best targets in one place.” This time Chue blinked. “If we’d all traveled with the wagon, it would have been quite a production. Having some soldiers around would have given us an advantage in battle, but we’d also have been with people who weren’t accustomed to being attacked. If we let them get traumatized, it might have had a negative impact on our work—not to mention the distinct possibility that they might be taken as hostages.”

The relentlessly ordinary Lahan’s Brother was a perfectly strong, healthy guy, but he didn’t seem like an experienced brawler. Maomao suspected he was as afraid of a fight as the next person.

The bandits would never have expected Basen to turn out to be a bear in a man’s clothing. But he was a lion-slayer, after all.

“No, it wasn’t. You guessed right; I got the cloak for you.”

“Is that so?”

They both sighed.

“Yes?”