For the next two days or so, Maomao and the others helped Nianzhen with his work. They turned over the earth with farming implements, discovering ants and earthworms and small beetles in the damp soil—and something else: long, thin blobs that, on closer inspection, had tiny eggs inside.

The chickens started with the earthworms, but when those ran out they moved on to these bundles of eggs. Basen’s duck joined them, pecking away at the ground.

Maomao would have liked to calculate how many there were likely to be in a one- tan field, but she didn’t have time. Whenever she found an egg bundle that the birds had missed, she would pluck it out of the ground and place it in a jar.

These are probably the larger ones
, she thought.

It was the kind of work that would drive someone with a fear of insects insane. Even Maomao, who had a good deal of experience with grasshopper dissection, didn’t enjoy looking at the little egg bundles.

Lahan’s Brother and Basen both plowed several times as much soil as Maomao could manage. Lahan’s Brother showed his stuff as a true farmer—the way he held and used the hoe was just different—while Basen’s ridiculous strength, for once, served him well.

I’m glad Basen was willing to join us here. He could have refused on the grounds that this wasn’t soldier’s work; there wouldn’t have been much she could do then. He seemed to have taken Jinshi’s concern about the grasshoppers to heart, though, and joined in without complaint. It probably seemed easy compared to raising ducks.

Basen’s willingness to be part of this convinced the guards and farmers they’d brought from the western capital to help out too. It looked like they were going to plow the entire field within the day. Even Chue was there, scampering across the plowed earth picking up any stray grasshopper eggs. Two children followed close behind her—the brother and sister she’d given the potato to. They seemed to be under the impression that if they helped out, there might be another potato in it for them.

“Miss Maomao! Miss Maomao! I’ve got lots! Wanna see?”

“Miss Chue! Miss Chue! I don’t want to see them. Although if you have a praying mantis ootheca, I’ll gladly take it.” Praying mantis eggs could be made into a medicine called sang piao shao , or mantis egg case, which was pretty valuable in that it was hard to get in large quantities.

“These eggs are hatching—there’s little guys coming out of them! Sure you don’t want to see, Miss Maomao?”

“Well, it is spring. And yes, I’m sure. They’re disgusting; please don’t show them to me.”

From the insect encyclopedia in the Shi clan fortress, Maomao had learned that grasshoppers lived for about three months and could lay upward of a hundred eggs at a time. The eggs hatched in spring, and the new generation would lay more eggs in summer.

I should’ve asked them to bring the Shi clan book about bugs—and the one about medicinal herbs, while we’re at it.

The more information they had, the better off they would be.

It wasn’t like grasshoppers bred all year round. At the moment, the eggs laid last autumn were starting to hatch. “Fall plowing” was a good idea—it would turn up the eggs that had been hidden in the earth, which would then become food for birds or small animals.

I think I remember Lahan talking about this.
 What had he called it? Multiplying like rats?

Say a single pair of rats had twelve children, for a total of fourteen rats. Assume there were six females among the children—meaning seven total, including their mother. Each of them could have another twelve babies.

This was basically an academic proposition, of course; not all of the rats were going to survive into adulthood. But grasshoppers multiplied much the same way, meaning that it was crucial to bring their numbers down as early in the cycle as possible.

If one cluster of eggs is a hundred, then ten is a thousand, and a hundred would be ten thousand. They could reduce the number of grasshoppers they had to deal with in the future by orders of magnitude if they could take care of the eggs now.

Grasshoppers liked to lay their eggs in ground that was somewhat damp. I guess with the river right nearby and plenty of grass to eat, this is the perfect place for them. Maybe some of the land had deliberately been left uncultivated specifically to attract the grasshoppers.

There were supposedly a number of other villages like this one scattered around I-sei Province—but how many of them were still functioning?

Nianzhen came up to Maomao, carrying a jar of grasshopper eggs. “All we have to do now is burn these.”

“Mm. Last year I was late with this, and a lot of the grasshoppers got away from me.”

She did recall the farmers of the village saying that last year had been a bad one for bug damage.

“So the harvest was poor?” she asked.

Nianzhen nodded. “There was only enough for us to eat, and we have no stores. If we’d had to pay taxes on top of that, we probably would’ve starved. Then we wouldn’t have had enough left over to buy daily necessities from the merchants, so we would have had to sell off our livestock.”

“But the governor exempted you from taxes, right? In fact, he even sent you support.”

“That he did. He’s cut from good cloth, that governor,” Nianzhen said—but again he sounded like he was saying it through gritted teeth.

Maomao decided not to beat around the bush. “You don’t quite sound like you mean that, sir. May I ask what bothers you so much about him?”

“I realize a former bandit’s in no position to criticize, but these people will take anything they can get. They beg and wheedle and plead for every last bit—they’re like grasshoppers themselves. If they’re so eager not to starve, maybe they should try growing some crops! But they don’t have to bother, because they have a ‘bad harvest’ and in comes the money. What would you do, if you could make as much or more lazing about than by breaking your back in the fields?”

“Is that why none of the fields in this village seem well cared-for?”

“You got it. It was the same way with the grasshoppers last year. Everyone just stood by and watched the bugs ravage their fields. The village headman was only wondering how to spin it in his letter to get the most sympathy from the governor. Meanwhile, I was going from plant to plant, plucking those grasshoppers off the leaves one at a time. They thought I was a fool!”

It hardly seemed like the actions of someone who had once been the vilest of bandits. The terror of the earlier plague seemed to have left a permanent mark on Nianzhen.

No... Maybe I’m wrong.

Maybe Nianzhen had always had a diligent streak. Born and raised to brigandage, he’d learned to shoot a bow and had excelled at what he had been told was important: killing.

Logic was not, after all, something one was born with.

“Judging by how the village looks now, they must have brought in quite a lot of cash last year,” Maomao said.

“They sure did. It’s been this way for more than a decade. Always the same. They have a crop failure, the governor saves their necks. A 
good
, 
kind
 governor.”

Good and kind, huh...

She wondered where all this money to support the farmers was coming from. Maybe it was excess from trade? She’d seen what a flourishing place the western capital was—there seemed to be more than enough cash going around to spare a few small coins for a farming village.

“If they’re going to spend all that money out here, it seems like an irrigation canal or two might be nice,” Maomao said.

When people had to do less physical labor hauling water, new kinds of work opened up. More fields could be developed. It would have been a wise investment, in Maomao’s eyes.

“That man Rikuson said the same thing,” said Nianzhen.

“Did he?” When they got back to the capital, she would have to find out how Rikuson had learned about this former serf.

“I suppose I should apologize for making you spend all your time helping me out here,” Nianzhen said. “Was there anything else you needed in this village?”

“Anything else...” Maomao rested her chin on the shaft of her hoe and closed her eyes. “Oh!”

She went over to Lahan’s Brother, who wasn’t just turning over the earth but was starting to build up ridges.

“Are you planning to make a field here?” she asked.

His face says: Shoot! I always do that! Lahan’s Brother could deny it all he liked, but he was a farmer through and through.

“Aren’t you going to tell people about your potatoes? That’s what you brought them for, right?”

“Yes, well, you’d think, wouldn’t you?” Lahan’s Brother grumbled. “But you saw these people—they aren’t actually interested in field work. You think they’d actually bother growing potatoes if I gave them to them? I doubt they’d use their established fields to grow new crops, but they don’t look like they’re about to bother breaking new ground either.”

“Point taken,” Maomao said.

“That’s why I was so eager to meet the one person around here with a decent field!”

“Yeah, but there’s no point giving the potatoes to the old guy.”

“I guess not.”

As the last of the former serfs in this village, Nianzhen had to tend to his own field as well as to the plowing for the so-called ritual. Normally, the plowing would have been finished in autumn, and here it was dragging on into spring—a clear sign of just how short of help he was.

“You don’t think we could leave someone here to help?” Maomao asked, looking at the farmers they had brought from the central region.

Lahan’s Brother almost seemed to think about it, but then said, “They only came all the way from the central region because I did. I can’t just leave them to work the soil in a land they hardly know. It would just be too tragic, don’t you think?”

“Yeah, that’s fair.”

Lahan’s Brother’s older-brotherliness could come out at the strangest times. He might have made a really good eldest son, if only he’d been born into a normal family.