Chapter 9: Rite and Ritual

Nianzhen took a mouthful of lukewarm goat’s milk to wet his parched throat. Maomao, Basen, and Lahan’s Brother waited in silence.

I didn’t expect to get so much information out of him , Maomao thought. She would have to try to sort through all he had told them.

She crossed her arms. So more than fifty years ago, Nianzhen and his tribe had destroyed the Windreaders, and several years after that, a major insect plague had occurred. Nianzhen believed the plague had been caused by the loss of the ritual. He’d become a serf, destined to spend the rest of his life performing that ritual. That seemed like a fair summary.

I guess the ritual involves tilling the earth?

It still didn’t quite make sense to Maomao—but it did to someone else.

“Nianzhen? It’s Nianzhen, right? You’re talking about fall plowing, then?”

Maomao and Basen both looked at Lahan’s Brother quizzically—they didn’t recognize that expression.

“It’s exactly what it says—plowing after the harvest in the fall,” he explained.

“And that’s...good? Wouldn’t it be more efficient to plow right before you plant the crops?” Basen asked. Maomao agreed with him.

“I’m aware of a couple of advantages. For one, you can improve the soil by turning it over and putting down paddy straw mushrooms or some other fertilizer, and for another, it helps eliminate eggs laid in the soil by pest insects.”

Maomao’s ears twitched, and she grabbed Lahan’s Brother by the collar. “Say that again!”

“Er, uh, you can put down paddy straw...”

“No, the other one!”

“Eliminating pest insects?”

“Yes, that!” Maomao shook him violently.

“Hey, quit it,” Basen said, holding her back. “You’re choking him!”

Maomao let Lahan’s Brother go.

“Ow! Yeesh! Is it that exciting? It’s a pretty ordinary farming activity,” he said, in the clear belief that this was general knowledge.

“I don’t know if there are a lot of farmers out there as diligent as you!” Maomao rejoined.

“Er... Oh. Uh, you think so?” Lahan’s Brother was clearly having some conflicting feelings. He appreciated the compliment, but it was hard for him to accept.

“Yes, that’s exactly what I’m doing,” Nianzhen broke in. “A quick look around this village probably told you—it doesn’t matter if the people around here know what to do or not; most of them just don’t care to do it. And if knowledge isn’t used, it gets lost.”

Maomao felt a pang. Lahan’s Brother had said the old man was the only one in town trying to keep up a decent field.

“May I ask you something? Are the people here even making an honest effort to raise wheat? It sort of feels like they aren’t, well, trying very hard,” Maomao said, shamelessly cribbing from Lahan’s Brother.

“So,” Nianzhen said, “it’s obvious even to the visitors, is it?”

“Yes, sir. Your field was much prettier than the others.”

Anyway, that’s what a pro farmer told me.

“I’m not trying to be pretty. I’m just trying to get a better harvest, and the field turns out that way. I can tell you, I never thought I would be the only one working myself to the bone out here.”

“Funny how life works out.” Basen’s dig had to hurt. He was a serious and dedicated military man. Maomao could understand why he might take a dim view of someone who had done things that put him at the bottom of the human dung heap, even if it was more than fifty years ago now. He might even be wondering why the man hadn’t been given a harsher punishment.

Maomao had to admit, she couldn’t help wondering the same thing. She knew, though, that executing Nianzhen wouldn’t have changed anything. Because he had been left alive, at least they could talk to him and learn what he knew.

I wonder how Rikuson found out about him.

Maybe, like Maomao, he’d simply walked around this village, and maybe, like Lahan’s Brother, he’d noticed the quality of the fields. Or perhaps he’d heard about Nianzhen from someone in the western capital.

They were talking about criminals who had become serfs fifty years and more before, and had been released from that status long ago. Rikuson was still a fresh face in this area; Maomao doubted he’d come here knowing about them.

Well, asking was quicker than pondering.

“Do you know if Rikuson came to this village because he’d found out about the ritual?”

“Yeah, that’s right. I didn’t think there was anyone left who knew about the ritual. Even the governor doesn’t seem to have heard of it. Rikuson, he said something about an acquaintance mentioning it.” Nianzhen put down the now empty cup of milk and shifted on the hard-looking bed.

“The governor doesn’t know about it? Do you mean Master Gyokuen, sir?”

In his story, Nianzhen had described Gyokuen as an upstart governor.

“Ah, sorry, bad choice of words. Not him. Yeah, Master Gyokuen is the ruler of I-sei Province, but it’s his whelp who’s been running things lately.”

“You mean his son?”

“Yeah, what’s-his-name. Gyoku-ou.”

It seemed a former bandit and former serf was not inclined to show undue respect to the governor. Not that Maomao cared, but Basen appeared to take exception to Nianzhen’s attitude. At least, she told herself, he resisted turning physical with the guy.

“I got the impression that Master Gyoku-ou is well regarded in this village. What’s behind that? Does it have something to do with the ritual?” Maomao asked.

“Hardly. He’s popular, plain and simple. He never punishes the farmers even if there’s a bad harvest. In fact, he’s so generous that if we don’t have enough to eat, he gives to us from the stores. Hell, you can almost get more that way than you would by doing a proper job.”

“Wow, wish I could say that,” Lahan’s Brother piped up.

“Yeah, he’s a real compassionate guy. A lot of the nomads are settling down. They say they’ll be better off as farmers.” Behind Nianzhen’s words, Maomao thought she caught a tone of contempt.

“You’d think such a compassionate leader would want to continue the ritual,” Lahan’s Brother said, setting down his empty cup with a 
tink
.

“Like I said, he doesn’t know the ritual. He doesn’t understand. Even the Yi clan didn’t know exactly what the ritual was or how it worked. What they make me do these days is just a pale imitation, based on the best of their knowledge.”

“So this ritual wasn’t about petitioning the gods at all—it was really a way of preventing insect plagues,” Maomao said.

“That’s what I think. It’s the work me and the other serfs were given to do in exchange for our lives. If we didn’t want to do it, too bad—they forced us. A few guys couldn’t stand it and tried to run away, and a few guys just plain slacked off, but the authorities caught them and hanged them to a man. What did they expect, when they’d spat on their chance to get off lightly? When you’re told that you plow the fields or you die, then you plow like your life depends on it.”

What Nianzhen had done was never going to be simply forgiven or forgotten, so what else was there for him to do?

“After a decade, they started giving us some small change based on the size of the harvest. It wasn’t much, but it meant we could start saving up, and that was everything. We’re close to the western capital here—I think the proximity increased the income from the harvest. It was such a simple thing, but it got us involved, made us start thinking about how we could improve yields or keep the crops from getting sick or keep the bugs away. Part of the reason we started keeping chickens was so they could eat whatever insects turned up when we plowed the fields.”

“Quack,” quacked the duck, not that it was relevant.

“So the birds the Windreaders used weren’t chickens?” asked Maomao.

“No, they weren’t. Chickens aren’t suited to a nomadic life.”

“But if they weren’t chickens, then...” Basen looked very serious. “They must have been ducks!”

“No, they weren’t ducks! What’s wrong with you?” Lahan’s Brother exploded.

Basen frowned at this instantaneous comeback. “Ducks eat bugs. And they’re bigger than chickens, which means they can eat 
more
 bugs... Right?”

“Ducks like water. This is a 
desert
. No one is going to raise any ducks!”

“I have proof positive that you’re wrong,” Basen said, indicating his duck. “Even waterfowl can grow big and strong here if they put their minds to it.”

“Whoever heard of a duck putting its mind to anything?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, but it was hopeless: Basen was a complete duck fanboy. The animal at his feet seemed to puff out her chest.

“Hate to break it to you, but they weren’t...ducks, did you call them? I’ve never seen one of these before,” Nianzhen said. Lahan’s Brother smirked at Basen, who sulked and patted his duck on the head. “The birds are exactly what we’re missing to do the Windreader ritual. Those birds weren’t about eating bugs—they were used to find them. No one can just guess where there’s going to be insects on all the wide plains, can they? I’d say it was because the Windreaders knew how to do that, that the Yi clan gave them their protection.”

And now here was a serf, a survivor of a decimated tribe that had believed the Windreaders and their rites were nothing but superstition.

“All right, can I get back to work? There’s so much yet to do.” Nianzhen heaved himself to his feet.

“Of course, sir. Whatever it is that you still have to do, perhaps you would let us help?” Maomao asked, before looking to either Basen or Lahan’s Brother for approval.

“You visitors from the western capital have funny hobbies. Your Rikuson, he said the same thing. Sure, I’d appreciate it. I’m the only former serf around here. Everyone else came to this village later; they don’t give a care about anyone’s fields but their own. It’s only me looking after the fields of the guys who are gone, and it gets harder every year...”

Nianzhen had to be almost seventy by now. Old enough that he might die at any time, yet he kept laboring away.

I can’t countenance what he did, but still.

As Nianzhen shuffled away, Maomao felt like she could see shackles around his ankles.

Grasshopper eggs?

“Sounds good to me.”

“Ack!”

“Oh?”