Maomao placed her hands in front of her chest, which gave her a chance to dig through the folds of her robes. She didn’t keep as much in there as Chue did, but she had some herbs and sewing tools. She walked as slowly as she could and tried to come up with a script. Finally she arrived in front of the cauldron, where she bowed her head.

“This fire carries our offerings to the gods. There was a time, once, when other humans were our sacrifices, but the gods spoke to us and revealed that this was not the manner of sacrifice they desired.”

She’d cribbed the words from a novel that had been popular in the rear palace. It had sounded even more high-flying in the original, but she couldn’t remember all the words.

“The god of this land takes the form of a bird; therefore it was decreed that the deity should be given an offering in accordance with the preferred sustenance of its manifestation.”

“ What ? You mean after all this time as farmers, you still worship your old god?” Chue asked, making sure to lay it on thick. “That would explain it! Now I see why your wheat grows so poorly. Let me guess—it gets worse every year, doesn’t it? Well, who can blame it, when the people who live here don’t even worship the god of these parts?”

That set the villagers muttering among themselves. It was true, Maomao suspected, that the harvest got worse and worse—with such listless cultivation, the land itself would decline. Unlike wet rice cultivation, grain needed soil that had been well cared-for, or the crop would wither.

I think this is going well?

It seemed rather promising. Until:

“That’s a lot of nonsense. I think the land is just exhausted. All this talk of gods—who knows if they even exist?” one of the village youth called out.

Come on, have a little faith!
 Maomao thought—never mind her own attitude.

Other villagers started to speak up:

“We’ve been here all this time. Why bring up gods and rituals now?”

“Yeah, we don’t need a good harvest, anyway—not with such a compassionate and generous governor watching over us!”

“He’s right! We don’t know if the gods exist—but we sure know the governor does, and we know he’ll watch out for us!”

There was a general murmur of agreement.

Believe only what you can see. Uh-huh. Fair enough. Maomao sympathized; she couldn’t say she would have done any different in their place. But she had a job to do.

Maomao bowed her head and laughed. “Heh heh!”

“What’s so funny?” one of the villagers demanded.

“Why, nothing. Only, you all seem to be laboring under a misunderstanding. Allow me to reiterate: it need not be you who conducts the ritual ,” she said, repeating Basen’s words. Then she turned her back to the villagers, taking the opportunity to rifle through the folds of her robe. She was careful not to let any of them see her.

Let’s see. What we need is...

She gave a great flourish of her hands, and the flame in the cauldron whooshed and danced.

“Look! The fire!” someone exclaimed.

The flames had turned yellow.

Maomao had more than just medicinal herbs stashed in her robes—she also carried disinfectant alcohol. Not to mention she still had a pinch of the salt from cooking earlier. Chue kept some with her—she’d explained it was a luxury item around here.

Ahh, this takes me back.

The same thing had once been behind a mystery in the rear palace: salt burned yellow.

“Can you not see the god’s will?” Maomao picked up the mirror housed in the shrine. Chue had polished it, somewhat, but only enough to get off the worst of the rust.

That’s perfect, though.

She dribbled some alcohol on the mirror and transferred some of the fire from the pot to its surface. Now the fire burned blue-green.

Maomao turned and put on her “business” smile.

“It appears the god is angry, and grieved.”

The bronze mirror was growing quite warm with the fire on it, so she set it beside the pot.

A buzz started among the villagers when they saw the color-changing flames.

“Now, I realize that you will not participate in the ritual.” She looked at the meal set out on the barrel. “But we seem to have made somewhat too much food tonight. Won’t you all have some before it goes cold?”

“Yippee!” the kids said, throwing their hands in the air. It wouldn’t be right to make them help all day and then not give them any food.

The adults were more hesitant, intimidated by the colorful fire—but they were undeniably drawn to the unusual food, the likes of which they’d never seen before. When everyone was looking at the table, Maomao nudged Chue. “Don’t put me on the spot like that again,” she muttered. Frankly, she’d broken into a cold sweat.

“I had faith that you could do it, Miss Maomao,” Chue said innocently, and then with a smile she jumped in to join the general melee over the feast.

I sure hope it works.

Maomao was exhausted. She decided to let Chue and the others handle things from here—she would go back to the tent to get some rest.