“I’m just glad my dad isn’t here. He’d vow to 
make
 them understand the glory of potatoes, and then who knows what he’d do!”

“If you’ll excuse my saying so, I can’t picture Lahan’s Father taking matters into his own hands like that.” In Maomao’s mind, he was an easygoing, almost Luomen-esque figure. “And also... The glory of potatoes?”

“Oh, he would describe the beauty of the flowers, the shape of the leaves, the graceful, supple roots...”

“They’re 
potatoes
. He could at least focus on their deliciousness.”

Maomao looked over at the siblings following Chue around. She set down her jar and went over to them.

“Say, would you like another of those potatoes?” she asked, squatting down so she was eye level with them.

“Yes, we would!”

“Want potatoes!”

The kids’ eyes sparkled.

“We’ve never ate something so sweet before! It was sweeter than raisins!”

“Raisins?” Maomao said.

“Sweets are valuable around here,” Chue interjected. “They don’t have honey, and sugar doesn’t come cheap.” She placed her large jar on her head and spun around.

So sweets are worth more here than in the central region.

“I think we can use this.” Maomao headed back to Lahan’s Brother, grinning.

There was a big hole dug behind Nianzhen’s house. It was covered in scorch marks—maybe it was normally for burning trash or something.

“This is where you burn the grasshopper eggs?” Maomao asked him.

“’S right. They don’t burn easy, so you have to add fuel.”

Presumably meaning oil or animal dung. The firewood and charcoal that Maomao and the others took for granted would almost pass for luxury products around here.

“Since we’ve got all these eggs to burn, I wouldn’t mind trying something different,” Maomao suggested.

Nianzhen gave her a look. “Whatever works. What did you have in mind?”

“Maybe I could borrow this.” She touched a big pot sitting outside. It was old, but sturdy; if they got the rust off, it looked like it would be quite usable. The dry grass and dead insects inside attested to how long it had been sitting there.

“Sure. Have fun.”

Maomao promptly turned the pot over and began scrubbing it with a reed scrub brush.

“Here you go, Miss Maomao!” Chue said. She had hauled water from the river, which Maomao gladly used. “That’s quite a pot you’ve got there! Big enough to make qingjiao rousi for thirty people!”

“I wonder if they used it for cooking,” Maomao said as she and Chue faced each other over the pot, scrubbing away.

“That was for making the serfs’ rice. They’d cook up an entire day’s worth at once,” said Nianzhen.

“Huh! So there were plenty of serfs,” said Chue. Maomao had told her Nianzhen’s story, but the unusual lady-in-waiting didn’t seem much bothered. It was as if it hardly mattered to her whether she was dealing with a former bandit or even a killer. “So was this a serving dish?” Chue picked up a round, metal plate.

“That’s a mirror. Used to be in the shrine.”

Mirrors were sometimes used for ritual purposes. This one might have been polished to a shine once upon a time, but now it was streaked with rust and reflected almost nothing.

“As long as we’re polishing things, you want us to polish this?” Chue said, rubbing it with her arm.

“Sure, if you would. Haven’t had time myself.”

Perhaps the serfs had shared the duty of polishing it, once again in some long-ago time, but it was simply too much for Nianzhen to get to by himself.

How much do the villagers really know? Maomao wondered. They seemed to treat Nianzhen as an eccentric, but they weren’t openly hostile toward him. Nor did they seem particularly worried about an insect plague. Was it possible the villagers were pretty laid-back?

Maomao couldn’t stop herself from musing, “Wonder if this village would survive if it was ever hit by bandits.”

She was speaking almost to herself, but Chue chirped, “Oh, they would be fine! They might be settled now, but they used to be nomads. They have bows and swords in their huts, all strung and sharpened and ready to go. Plus they know the terrain—you’d have to be a very brave bandit to attack this place!”

“That explains why they go after travelers instead,” Maomao said.

What did ever happen to that guide of ours?

It seemed like it might be better left unthought-about, but there was something she had to ask. “Why did you decide to have us be the bait, Miss Chue? Master Basen didn’t seem like he knew what you were planning, and it would be unlike the Moon Prince to order us to do something like that.”

Jinshi seemed to be quite alert to Maomao’s safety these days—even Basen’s presence as their bodyguard seemed like an act of consideration from him.

Chue narrowed her already small eyes, making them even smaller. “My orders were to minimize risk. And isn’t it safer to know when and where you’ll be attacked, rather than not having any idea when the enemy will strike?”

So Chue had been thinking of safety too, in her own way.

“All right, but I think normally you try to 
hide
 how much danger people are in. It makes them less jumpy.”

“I know you’ve got a lot of guts, Miss Maomao. Anyway, I thought maybe you’d appreciate the more logical approach.”

“I just want to say for the record that if someone punched me, I would die.”

“Understood and duly noted! But if we need anyone to survive any poisons, you’ll be up!”

Chue certainly knew who was good for what.

As they chatted, the pot got progressively cleaner. Nianzhen was doing some other work nearby.

“What would you like us to do with this? I mean, with this pot?” Chue called.

“Put the grasshopper eggs in it,” he replied.

Chue recoiled with almost comical intensity. “Miss Maomao...”

“No, no, Miss Chue, don’t worry. We’re not going to eat them. I promise.”

“You 
promise
 promise?” Chue still didn’t look like she believed her.

“Yes. They don’t look very tasty, do they? And they’re disgusting. We should know, we gathered them.” Mature bugs she had eaten, but even she would say no to insect eggs. “We’ll pour oil on these—”

“And fry them?”

“And burn them.”

“Burn them?”

Maomao took the pot and headed toward the shrine. It was of modest brick construction, but if it were cleaned and decorated it would be suitably imposing.

“I say we light a fire here. That seems ritual-ish, doesn’t it?” Maomao asked.

“Oh-ho,” said Chue.

“And a ritual needs a feast, right?” Maomao looked at the kids from the village, who were still hanging around. Word about the potatoes must’ve traveled, because there was a small crowd in addition to the brother and sister.

“ I see what you’re getting at.” Chue laughed. She saw where Maomao was going with this—good. “You just leave the decorations to me!” She pulled a length of red ribbon from her collar. “We’ll need a platform for our lovely pot. I’ll get Lahan’s Brother and my little brother-in-law to help!”

Apparently, Chue now also called him “Lahan’s Brother.”

Chue focused on building the platform, so Maomao was left to prepare the meal. She borrowed the oven in Nianzhen’s house to whip something up. Maomao sometimes felt like she was standing in En’en’s pro-chef shadow, but the fact was, she wasn’t a half-bad cook herself.

Cooking is basically just like mixing up drugs, but with food. You put the ingredients and the garnishes together to make something tasty.

“What’re you doing?” Nianzhen asked, narrowing his remaining eye.

“Ritual.”

“How’s that again?”

“Rituals are supposed to be joyous celebrations, are they not, sir? And for that, you need a feast.”

“I suppose you’ve got me there...” He looked uneasy; his gaze settled on Lahan’s Brother.

“Stop! Don’t use 
all
 of them! I only brought so many, you know!”

What was “them”? The seed potatoes, of course. They had decided to make this festival a big one.

“I know, I know. Less whining, more steaming!”

“You can’t talk to people like—Grr!”

Lahan’s Brother grumbled angrily to himself, but he put more fuel in the stove. He was using two sticks to pick it up—maybe he felt an instinctive resistance to handling sheep dung with his bare hands, even if it was dried.

“You can use whatever tools I have around my house. If you use up my food, I’d appreciate if you could spare me a few coins for it. I live right on the edge,” Nianzhen said.

“Thank you, sir,” Maomao said.

“I’m going to get some sleep,” said Nianzhen, lying down on the crude bed. He looked hardy, but he was an old man, and days on end of work in the fields took their toll.

“Sweet potatoes get their sweetest when slow-cooked, right?” Maomao asked.

“Yes! You can’t just roast them over a big, hot flame!”

So it’s not just potato farming he’s so well-versed in. It’s potato cooking too.

It looked like Lahan had been relying in no small measure on Lahan’s Brother to dream up ways to use sweet potatoes. Lahan’s Brother could be rough on his younger sibling, but he was fundamentally a decent person—too decent. The way he made a point of pushing back at everything suggested an ordinary but belated rebellious phase.

“I’m not a very versatile cook. What do you think we can make with the ingredients on hand here?” Maomao asked.

“Why are you asking me?!”

“Because Miss Chue is more the eating type, and Master Basen won’t be any help.”

Chue seemed like she might have been able to make congee, if she really had to, but when it came to more elaborate dishes, she was focused on consumption rather than production.

“Well, I don’t know,” Lahan’s Brother said flatly. He looked away from her, but he was obviously lying.

“I see,” said Maomao. “I’m sorry... I was just hoping to treat them to something they’d really enjoy.”

She looked back, toward the door, where children were peeking in. The crowd of kids accompanying the brother and sister had grown to substantial proportions.

“Oh, look at all your friends,” she said, uncharacteristically speaking directly to the children. “I’ll bet you were all hoping you could have something special. Something delicious.”

“What?” asked the sister, on the verge of tears. “You mean... You mean we don’t get to eat potatoes?”

“Oh, you will, you will. It’s just... I’m sorry. I won’t be able to make them taste very good by myself.”

“Why? Are you bad at cooking?” asked another kid.

“Aw, I wish we could have potatoes. Doesn’t sound like we’ll get any,” a third child said mournfully.

Lahan’s Brother looked increasingly uncomfortable. He hunched, he kept his back to them—but only for a moment. Then he sighed a long sigh, turned, and raised a finger. “Listen, you little brats. You want food, help with the cooking. Those who don’t work, don’t eat. But those who do work—I’ll treat you to the best food you’ve ever had!”

The children cheered, and Lahan’s Brother proved he was the ultimate eldest son.

What a soft touch!
 Maomao thought as she speared a potato in the steamer on her chopsticks.

By the time Maomao and her crew were done cooking, the shrine had been fully decorated. Chue had placed the pot full of grasshopper eggs smack in the middle, atop a small but well-constructed pile of bricks that served as an impromptu platform.

The modest shrine was festooned with red banners, and animal-lard lamps glowed here and there. There was a clanging of metal; Maomao looked toward the sound to discover two metal plates had been tied together to create a clapper. When the wind blew through, it rattled the cymbals and made the banners flutter.

The chair and tables, such as they were, consisted of barrels covered in felt. The “table” was piled with the food Maomao and the others had made.

By the time everything was ready, the sun was already brushing the western horizon.

“What all’s going on here?” someone asked. It wasn’t just kids anymore—the adults had started to show up as well.

Once everyone was there, Maomao poured oil into the huge pot. Then they lit a fire, using dried grass to get it started.

There was a whiff of an aroma that might have been pleasant or might have been stomach turning; it was hard to tell. The pot began to burn brilliantly, accentuated by the gathering darkness.

“What are you, ahem, doing, esteemed visitors?” the village headman asked, perplexed. Several of the other villagers were with him.

“Allow me to explain,” said Basen, stepping forward. Chue came up beside him and briefly showed him a piece of paper.

Cue cards!

Thankfully, the villagers didn’t notice.

“This village was founded long ago in order to carry out a ritual,” Basen said.

“Yes, we’ve heard of it,” the headman said. “You mean the ‘ritual’ of turning up the earth that no one understands. Only Nianzhen does it now.”

“That’s correct. And I’m well aware that you don’t understand it. The reason we have come to you this day is to bring to you the full and proper form of the ritual, which you knew only in part, but which we now give to you in whole.”

Very profound.

Basen was reciting from a script, and he sounded like it, but, backlit by the fire, he still managed to look important, maybe even sacred. Chue was well prepared; she had a whole sheaf of paper, from which she selected appropriate lines based on the villagers’ reactions.

She really knows how to handle her little brother.

Lahan’s Brother was holding the duck in his arms: having it waddling around behind Basen might spoil the reverential image they were trying to create.

Lahan’s Brother nudged Maomao. “Is that true?” he hissed. The moment was so convincingly manufactured that he had been taken in along with the audience.

“It is now. Try to play along.”

“Wait... It’s 
not
 true?” He looked scandalized. Meanwhile, Basen continued to speak with the villagers.

“Have you really? I see you’re prepared to conduct the ritual right now...but may I ask you a question first?” the headman ventured.

“What would you like to know?”

“It’s only Nianzhen who’s been entrusted with this duty, isn’t it? The rest of us were summoned here by the governor as settlers—we weren’t told of any ritual.”

There was a great 
crack
 from inside the pot.

The headman seemed to be saying that the visitors were more than welcome to conduct their rite, but the villagers had no intention of joining in. By the look on his face it was clear he thought Basen was trying to push something on him, and he didn’t want it.

Chue stopped hopping around for a thoughtful second, then showed Basen another cue card.

“I understand your objection. It need not be you who conducts the ritual.” Basen looked at Maomao. From behind him, Chue gave her a broad wink. “But may I take it, then, that you don’t care what happens as a result?”

Basen pointed directly at Maomao. (This was also at Chue’s direction.)

They’re trying to pass the buck to me! He seemed to be indicating that they would leave the ritual to Maomao, but that was more than she had signed on for. What the hell do they want me to do?!

Still, she had to roll with it. She walked forward one slow, solemn step at a time, toward the big pot.

There has to be something I can try. Some little bluff, something to pull the wool over their eyes...

Maomao placed her hands in front of her chest, which gave her a chance to dig through the folds of her robes. She didn’t keep as much in there as Chue did, but she had some herbs and sewing tools. She walked as slowly as she could and tried to come up with a script. Finally she arrived in front of the cauldron, where she bowed her head.

“This fire carries our offerings to the gods. There was a time, once, when other humans were our sacrifices, but the gods spoke to us and revealed that this was not the manner of sacrifice they desired.”

She’d cribbed the words from a novel that had been popular in the rear palace. It had sounded even more high-flying in the original, but she couldn’t remember all the words.

“The god of this land takes the form of a bird; therefore it was decreed that the deity should be given an offering in accordance with the preferred sustenance of its manifestation.”

She’d spotted one of the chickens sleeping in the shed.

“A bird deity? But we worship a god of the pasture...”

“ What ? You mean after all this time as farmers, you still worship your old god?” Chue asked, making sure to lay it on thick. “That would explain it! Now I see why your wheat grows so poorly. Let me guess—it gets worse every year, doesn’t it? Well, who can blame it, when the people who live here don’t even worship the god of these parts?”

That set the villagers muttering among themselves. It was true, Maomao suspected, that the harvest got worse and worse—with such listless cultivation, the land itself would decline. Unlike wet rice cultivation, grain needed soil that had been well cared-for, or the crop would wither.

I think this is going well?

It seemed rather promising. Until:

“That’s a lot of nonsense. I think the land is just exhausted. All this talk of gods—who knows if they even exist?” one of the village youth called out.

Come on, have a little faith!
 Maomao thought—never mind her own attitude.

Other villagers started to speak up:

“We’ve been here all this time. Why bring up gods and rituals now?”

“Yeah, we don’t need a good harvest, anyway—not with such a compassionate and generous governor watching over us!”

“He’s right! We don’t know if the gods exist—but we sure know the governor does, and we know he’ll watch out for us!”

There was a general murmur of agreement.

Believe only what you can see. Uh-huh. Fair enough. Maomao sympathized; she couldn’t say she would have done any different in their place. But she had a job to do.

Maomao bowed her head and laughed. “Heh heh!”

“What’s so funny?” one of the villagers demanded.

“Why, nothing. Only, you all seem to be laboring under a misunderstanding. Allow me to reiterate: it need not be you who conducts the ritual ,” she said, repeating Basen’s words. Then she turned her back to the villagers, taking the opportunity to rifle through the folds of her robe. She was careful not to let any of them see her.

Let’s see. What we need is...

She gave a great flourish of her hands, and the flame in the cauldron whooshed and danced.

“Look! The fire!” someone exclaimed.

The flames had turned yellow.

“What is this?!”

Maomao had more than just medicinal herbs stashed in her robes—she also carried disinfectant alcohol. Not to mention she still had a pinch of the salt from cooking earlier. Chue kept some with her—she’d explained it was a luxury item around here.

Ahh, this takes me back.

The same thing had once been behind a mystery in the rear palace: salt burned yellow.

“Can you not see the god’s will?” Maomao picked up the mirror housed in the shrine. Chue had polished it, somewhat, but only enough to get off the worst of the rust.

That’s perfect, though.

She dribbled some alcohol on the mirror and transferred some of the fire from the pot to its surface. Now the fire burned blue-green.

Maomao turned and put on her “business” smile.

“It appears the god is angry, and grieved.”

The bronze mirror was growing quite warm with the fire on it, so she set it beside the pot.

A buzz started among the villagers when they saw the color-changing flames.

“Now, I realize that you will not participate in the ritual.” She looked at the meal set out on the barrel. “But we seem to have made somewhat too much food tonight. Won’t you all have some before it goes cold?”

“Yippee!” the kids said, throwing their hands in the air. It wouldn’t be right to make them help all day and then not give them any food.

The adults were more hesitant, intimidated by the colorful fire—but they were undeniably drawn to the unusual food, the likes of which they’d never seen before. When everyone was looking at the table, Maomao nudged Chue. “Don’t put me on the spot like that again,” she muttered. Frankly, she’d broken into a cold sweat.

“I had faith that you could do it, Miss Maomao,” Chue said innocently, and then with a smile she jumped in to join the general melee over the feast.

I sure hope it works.

Maomao was exhausted. She decided to let Chue and the others handle things from here—she would go back to the tent to get some rest.