“I know you’ve got a lot of guts, Miss Maomao. Anyway, I thought maybe you’d appreciate the more logical approach.”

“I just want to say for the record that if someone punched me, I would die.”

“Understood and duly noted! But if we need anyone to survive any poisons, you’ll be up!”

Chue certainly knew who was good for what.

As they chatted, the pot got progressively cleaner. Nianzhen was doing some other work nearby.

“What would you like us to do with this? I mean, with this pot?” Chue called.

“Put the grasshopper eggs in it,” he replied.

Chue recoiled with almost comical intensity. “Miss Maomao...”

“No, no, Miss Chue, don’t worry. We’re not going to eat them. I promise.”

“You 
promise
 promise?” Chue still didn’t look like she believed her.

“Yes. They don’t look very tasty, do they? And they’re disgusting. We should know, we gathered them.” Mature bugs she had eaten, but even she would say no to insect eggs. “We’ll pour oil on these—”

“And fry them?”

“And burn them.”

“Burn them?”

Maomao took the pot and headed toward the shrine. It was of modest brick construction, but if it were cleaned and decorated it would be suitably imposing.

“I say we light a fire here. That seems ritual-ish, doesn’t it?” Maomao asked.

“Oh-ho,” said Chue.

“And a ritual needs a feast, right?” Maomao looked at the kids from the village, who were still hanging around. Word about the potatoes must’ve traveled, because there was a small crowd in addition to the brother and sister.

“ I see what you’re getting at.” Chue laughed. She saw where Maomao was going with this—good. “You just leave the decorations to me!” She pulled a length of red ribbon from her collar. “We’ll need a platform for our lovely pot. I’ll get Lahan’s Brother and my little brother-in-law to help!”

Apparently, Chue now also called him “Lahan’s Brother.”

Chue focused on building the platform, so Maomao was left to prepare the meal. She borrowed the oven in Nianzhen’s house to whip something up. Maomao sometimes felt like she was standing in En’en’s pro-chef shadow, but the fact was, she wasn’t a half-bad cook herself.

Cooking is basically just like mixing up drugs, but with food. You put the ingredients and the garnishes together to make something tasty.

“What’re you doing?” Nianzhen asked, narrowing his remaining eye.

“How’s that again?”

“Rituals are supposed to be joyous celebrations, are they not, sir? And for that, you need a feast.”

“I suppose you’ve got me there...” He looked uneasy; his gaze settled on Lahan’s Brother.

“Stop! Don’t use 
all
 of them! I only brought so many, you know!”

What was “them”? The seed potatoes, of course. They had decided to make this festival a big one.

“I know, I know. Less whining, more steaming!”

“You can’t talk to people like—Grr!”

Lahan’s Brother grumbled angrily to himself, but he put more fuel in the stove. He was using two sticks to pick it up—maybe he felt an instinctive resistance to handling sheep dung with his bare hands, even if it was dried.

“You can use whatever tools I have around my house. If you use up my food, I’d appreciate if you could spare me a few coins for it. I live right on the edge,” Nianzhen said.

“Thank you, sir,” Maomao said.

“I’m going to get some sleep,” said Nianzhen, lying down on the crude bed. He looked hardy, but he was an old man, and days on end of work in the fields took their toll.

“Sweet potatoes get their sweetest when slow-cooked, right?” Maomao asked.

“Yes! You can’t just roast them over a big, hot flame!”

So it’s not just potato farming he’s so well-versed in. It’s potato cooking too.

It looked like Lahan had been relying in no small measure on Lahan’s Brother to dream up ways to use sweet potatoes. Lahan’s Brother could be rough on his younger sibling, but he was fundamentally a decent person—too decent. The way he made a point of pushing back at everything suggested an ordinary but belated rebellious phase.

“I’m not a very versatile cook. What do you think we can make with the ingredients on hand here?” Maomao asked.

“Why are you asking me?!”

“Because Miss Chue is more the eating type, and Master Basen won’t be any help.”

Chue seemed like she might have been able to make congee, if she really had to, but when it came to more elaborate dishes, she was focused on consumption rather than production.

“Well, I don’t know,” Lahan’s Brother said flatly. He looked away from her, but he was obviously lying.

“I see,” said Maomao. “I’m sorry... I was just hoping to treat them to something they’d really enjoy.”

She looked back, toward the door, where children were peeking in. The crowd of kids accompanying the brother and sister had grown to substantial proportions.

“Oh, look at all your friends,” she said, uncharacteristically speaking directly to the children. “I’ll bet you were all hoping you could have something special. Something delicious.”

“What?” asked the sister, on the verge of tears. “You mean... You mean we don’t get to eat potatoes?”

“Why? Are you bad at cooking?” asked another kid.

Cue cards!

Thankfully, the villagers didn’t notice.

Very profound.