“Oh, you will, you will. It’s just... I’m sorry. I won’t be able to make them taste very good by myself.”

“Aw, I wish we could have potatoes. Doesn’t sound like we’ll get any,” a third child said mournfully.

Lahan’s Brother looked increasingly uncomfortable. He hunched, he kept his back to them—but only for a moment. Then he sighed a long sigh, turned, and raised a finger. “Listen, you little brats. You want food, help with the cooking. Those who don’t work, don’t eat. But those who do work—I’ll treat you to the best food you’ve ever had!”

The children cheered, and Lahan’s Brother proved he was the ultimate eldest son.

What a soft touch!
 Maomao thought as she speared a potato in the steamer on her chopsticks.

By the time Maomao and her crew were done cooking, the shrine had been fully decorated. Chue had placed the pot full of grasshopper eggs smack in the middle, atop a small but well-constructed pile of bricks that served as an impromptu platform.

The modest shrine was festooned with red banners, and animal-lard lamps glowed here and there. There was a clanging of metal; Maomao looked toward the sound to discover two metal plates had been tied together to create a clapper. When the wind blew through, it rattled the cymbals and made the banners flutter.

The chair and tables, such as they were, consisted of barrels covered in felt. The “table” was piled with the food Maomao and the others had made.

By the time everything was ready, the sun was already brushing the western horizon.

“What all’s going on here?” someone asked. It wasn’t just kids anymore—the adults had started to show up as well.

Once everyone was there, Maomao poured oil into the huge pot. Then they lit a fire, using dried grass to get it started.

There was a whiff of an aroma that might have been pleasant or might have been stomach turning; it was hard to tell. The pot began to burn brilliantly, accentuated by the gathering darkness.

“What are you, ahem, doing, esteemed visitors?” the village headman asked, perplexed. Several of the other villagers were with him.

“Allow me to explain,” said Basen, stepping forward. Chue came up beside him and briefly showed him a piece of paper.

“This village was founded long ago in order to carry out a ritual,” Basen said.

“Yes, we’ve heard of it,” the headman said. “You mean the ‘ritual’ of turning up the earth that no one understands. Only Nianzhen does it now.”

“That’s correct. And I’m well aware that you don’t understand it. The reason we have come to you this day is to bring to you the full and proper form of the ritual, which you knew only in part, but which we now give to you in whole.”

Basen was reciting from a script, and he sounded like it, but, backlit by the fire, he still managed to look important, maybe even sacred. Chue was well prepared; she had a whole sheaf of paper, from which she selected appropriate lines based on the villagers’ reactions.

She really knows how to handle her little brother.

Lahan’s Brother was holding the duck in his arms: having it waddling around behind Basen might spoil the reverential image they were trying to create.

Lahan’s Brother nudged Maomao. “Is that true?” he hissed. The moment was so convincingly manufactured that he had been taken in along with the audience.

“It is now. Try to play along.”

“Wait... It’s 
not
 true?” He looked scandalized. Meanwhile, Basen continued to speak with the villagers.

“Have you really? I see you’re prepared to conduct the ritual right now...but may I ask you a question first?” the headman ventured.

“What would you like to know?”

“It’s only Nianzhen who’s been entrusted with this duty, isn’t it? The rest of us were summoned here by the governor as settlers—we weren’t told of any ritual.”

There was a great 
crack
 from inside the pot.

The headman seemed to be saying that the visitors were more than welcome to conduct their rite, but the villagers had no intention of joining in. By the look on his face it was clear he thought Basen was trying to push something on him, and he didn’t want it.

Chue stopped hopping around for a thoughtful second, then showed Basen another cue card.

“I understand your objection. It need not be you who conducts the ritual.” Basen looked at Maomao. From behind him, Chue gave her a broad wink. “But may I take it, then, that you don’t care what happens as a result?”

Basen pointed directly at Maomao. (This was also at Chue’s direction.)

They’re trying to pass the buck to me! He seemed to be indicating that they would leave the ritual to Maomao, but that was more than she had signed on for. What the hell do they want me to do?!

Still, she had to roll with it. She walked forward one slow, solemn step at a time, toward the big pot.

There has to be something I can try. Some little bluff, something to pull the wool over their eyes...

Maomao placed her hands in front of her chest, which gave her a chance to dig through the folds of her robes. She didn’t keep as much in there as Chue did, but she had some herbs and sewing tools. She walked as slowly as she could and tried to come up with a script. Finally she arrived in front of the cauldron, where she bowed her head.

“This fire carries our offerings to the gods. There was a time, once, when other humans were our sacrifices, but the gods spoke to us and revealed that this was not the manner of sacrifice they desired.”

She’d cribbed the words from a novel that had been popular in the rear palace. It had sounded even more high-flying in the original, but she couldn’t remember all the words.

“The god of this land takes the form of a bird; therefore it was decreed that the deity should be given an offering in accordance with the preferred sustenance of its manifestation.”

She’d spotted one of the chickens sleeping in the shed.

“A bird deity? But we worship a god of the pasture...”

“ What ? You mean after all this time as farmers, you still worship your old god?” Chue asked, making sure to lay it on thick. “That would explain it! Now I see why your wheat grows so poorly. Let me guess—it gets worse every year, doesn’t it? Well, who can blame it, when the people who live here don’t even worship the god of these parts?”

That set the villagers muttering among themselves. It was true, Maomao suspected, that the harvest got worse and worse—with such listless cultivation, the land itself would decline. Unlike wet rice cultivation, grain needed soil that had been well cared-for, or the crop would wither.

I think this is going well?

It seemed rather promising. Until:

“That’s a lot of nonsense. I think the land is just exhausted. All this talk of gods—who knows if they even exist?” one of the village youth called out.

Come on, have a little faith!
 Maomao thought—never mind her own attitude.

Other villagers started to speak up:

“We’ve been here all this time. Why bring up gods and rituals now?”

“Yeah, we don’t need a good harvest, anyway—not with such a compassionate and generous governor watching over us!”

“He’s right! We don’t know if the gods exist—but we sure know the governor does, and we know he’ll watch out for us!”

There was a general murmur of agreement.

Believe only what you can see. Uh-huh. Fair enough. Maomao sympathized; she couldn’t say she would have done any different in their place. But she had a job to do.

Maomao bowed her head and laughed. “Heh heh!”

“What’s so funny?” one of the villagers demanded.

“Why, nothing. Only, you all seem to be laboring under a misunderstanding. Allow me to reiterate: it need not be you who conducts the ritual ,” she said, repeating Basen’s words. Then she turned her back to the villagers, taking the opportunity to rifle through the folds of her robe. She was careful not to let any of them see her.

Let’s see. What we need is...

She gave a great flourish of her hands, and the flame in the cauldron whooshed and danced.

“Look! The fire!” someone exclaimed.

The flames had turned yellow.

“What is this?!”

Maomao had more than just medicinal herbs stashed in her robes—she also carried disinfectant alcohol. Not to mention she still had a pinch of the salt from cooking earlier. Chue kept some with her—she’d explained it was a luxury item around here.

Ahh, this takes me back.

The same thing had once been behind a mystery in the rear palace: salt burned yellow.

“Can you not see the god’s will?” Maomao picked up the mirror housed in the shrine. Chue had polished it, somewhat, but only enough to get off the worst of the rust.

That’s perfect, though.

She dribbled some alcohol on the mirror and transferred some of the fire from the pot to its surface. Now the fire burned blue-green.

Maomao turned and put on her “business” smile.

“It appears the god is angry, and grieved.”

The bronze mirror was growing quite warm with the fire on it, so she set it beside the pot.

A buzz started among the villagers when they saw the color-changing flames.

“Now, I realize that you will not participate in the ritual.” She looked at the meal set out on the barrel. “But we seem to have made somewhat too much food tonight. Won’t you all have some before it goes cold?”

“Yippee!” the kids said, throwing their hands in the air. It wouldn’t be right to make them help all day and then not give them any food.

The adults were more hesitant, intimidated by the colorful fire—but they were undeniably drawn to the unusual food, the likes of which they’d never seen before. When everyone was looking at the table, Maomao nudged Chue. “Don’t put me on the spot like that again,” she muttered. Frankly, she’d broken into a cold sweat.

“I had faith that you could do it, Miss Maomao,” Chue said innocently, and then with a smile she jumped in to join the general melee over the feast.

I sure hope it works.

Maomao was exhausted. She decided to let Chue and the others handle things from here—she would go back to the tent to get some rest.