A perfect crimson flower bloomed on Jinshi’s flank. New skin was forming over the burn, turning it a bright red, like a rose or a peony. Maomao might even have admired the beauty of it, if she hadn’t known that it was politically motivated.

I’d say it’s just about better. The scar would likely never heal completely—it would fade from red to pink, but probably not much more than that. Man. I wish I could take some skin from his butt and stick it on this thing. She spared a glance at Jinshi’s haunches.

“You know, I can’t help thinking you seem to look as much at my back as my front during our exams lately,” Jinshi said.

Maomao put fresh salve on Jinshi’s side, less to treat the burn than to keep the skin from drying out. Eventually she planned to start adding some herbs that would remove blemishes.

She applied a fresh bandage, and that was the extent of Jinshi’s treatment. It was over so quickly that the tea was still steaming. Maomao helped herself to a sip.

“It does go so much quicker when you do it,” Jinshi said. He pulled his robe back on and drank down the tea on the table. When Maomao moved to pour him a second cup, he gestured for her not to bother. Instead he took a book from the desk and sat down on his bed.

“Mostly because I’m still figuring out what I’m doing here. A new land means much to learn.” So it was study rather than work that kept him occupied. “Give me your report,” he said. Apparently he meant to listen while he read his book. A necessary evil for the time-starved.

“I want every opinion and observation you can give me. Don’t skimp on the details just because I’ve heard from Basen and Chue already.”

“Yes, sir. In that case, I—”

Jinshi interrupted her, patting the bed beside him.

Maomao didn’t say anything.

“It would be tiring for you to stand there the whole time we’re talking. Have a seat.”

“Certainly. I’ll go get a chair...”

She was about to do just that, but Jinshi grabbed her wrist. He was giving her his bring-the-country-to-its-knees smile. “ Have a seat .” Just when she’d thought he was behaving himself today.

Maomao was left with little choice but to sit down beside Jinshi. There, she began to relate the story of their visit to the village. Telling someone else about it gave her a chance to organize things in her own mind. She described how the bandits had attacked them on the road. She talked about the farmers who showed no particular desire to work. Explained the Windreader tribe and the serfs.

She even mentioned the Yi clan.

Jinshi seemed to be mentally comparing what she said with what he had heard from the other two. Often he nodded; sometimes he would give a tilt of his head, as if something seemed off to him.

“I think that’s all I can tell you, sir. Do you have any questions?”

“Mm. I think the thing that bothers me most would be the Windreader tribe.”

“I know what you mean. A tribe of ritual celebrants who wander the plains, controlling birds and plowing the earth?”

“Controlling birds...” Jinshi seemed fixated on the same thing that had gotten Maomao’s attention.

“Are we very sure the birds in question aren’t ducks, sir?” Maomao asked.

“Yes. I feel a bit bad, doing that to Basen...”

Basen was currently in his mother Taomei’s bad books on account of that duck. As it was Jinshi who had originally ordered him to raise the animals, he felt a certain measure of guilt. Moreover, it seemed he’d instructed Taomei to nudge her son now and again to get him to keep his distance during Jinshi’s examinations. Everyone was concerned that if Basen, not the most subtle of men, were to find out about the brand, he might not be able to keep the secret.

“What kind of bird do you think they used?” asked Jinshi. Basen had been convinced it must be ducks, but Maomao had another idea.

“Perhaps pigeons,” she said.

Maomao had been in the western capital before, a year ago. On that trip, former consort Lishu had been attacked, and the means of coordinating that attack had been messenger pigeons.

That’s how the White Lady did it.

She couldn’t help wondering if there was some connection.

“Yes, pigeons. I had the same thought.” Jinshi got up from the bed and disappeared behind a partitioning screen, from which he emerged carrying a birdcage with a bird sleeping inside.

“You have a pigeon right here,” Maomao observed.

“So I do. I’ve started using them for simple communications.”

Jinshi looked older than his twenty-one years, but he was still young enough to be adaptable in his thinking; he took in new things quickly.

“It’s been twenty days or so since we got here, and I’ve done nothing but attend banquets and make official greetings. But that’s provided opportunities to gather intelligence.”

Jinshi began to fill Maomao in on what he’d been up to while she was away. The bird was soundly asleep, ignoring the millet in its food bowl.

Jinshi told her about all his dinners with the western capital’s upper crust, how he had been shown every important site in the area, and even how some VIP had occasionally approached him on behalf of their daughter or a relative.

“We just missed Sir Gyoku-ou’s daughter—she was leaving for the capital when our party arrived,” he said.

“He asked if I wanted her for my wife, but he pretended to be joking.”

“Of course, sir.”

Maomao studiously kept any emotion out of her voice. Jinshi responded by tugging on her cheeks.

“I meab, moth brazen, thir.”

“I agree.” He let go, and Maomao rubbed her cheeks.

“What do you mean to do?” she asked.

“I started by sending a letter to Empress Gyokuyou immediately. I have her response here.”

“Already, sir? I thought the round trip took at least a month.”

Jinshi took out a letter and showed it to her. It was in a pretty sad state for a missive from the Empress.

“You used a pigeon,” Maomao said.

“Only one way.”

It seemed Jinshi was willing to let her read the letter, so Maomao took a peek. “She says to let her handle things with her niece.”

That was the gist of it, anyway. If Gyoku-ou was indeed Empress Gyokuyou’s half-brother, then his daughter would be her niece.

What is she planning to do, I wonder...

The Empress didn’t exactly seem to be on the best of terms with her half-brother. She had her own designs, Maomao was sure. Meanwhile, Maomao and the others had to confront the problem that was in front of them.

“If the Windreaders were using pigeons, it would lend credence to that man Nianzhen’s story,” Jinshi said.

“You think the Windreaders were able to share information on the plains?”

“They would have to be. Insect plagues are like fires—the problem is getting to them the moment they start.”

“Maybe one thing...”

“Yes? What?”