She definitely felt an ominous ripple of foreshadowing. She seriously considered waking Lihaku and asking him to handle this, but then she looked up at the rafters again. He would never be able to fit between them.

“You know, considering the size of the space up there, I definitely think I should do this,” she said.

“N-No, no, I’ll go. You can count on me!” Basen responded.

Then he set off up the ladder, Maomao’s anxiety mounting with every step. If there was a silver lining here, it would be that Basen was so sturdy that he wouldn’t hurt himself if he fell.

Basen made the top of the ladder, then peered in through the latticework along the roofline. He shot Maomao an 
all-good
 gesture.

Guess that means there’s a nest up there.

The latticework was designed to be removable, and Basen pried it away. He ran a rope through it and lowered it to the ground, then wedged himself into the roof space.

The entire assembled crowd, Maomao included, swallowed hard. Everyone seemed strangely silent—then Maomao realized that Chue had wandered up at some point and was holding a board on which she’d written Quiet Please .

For a long moment, nothing happened, and then there was a loud crash.

“Shoot! It got away!” Basen exclaimed.

Maomao was beside herself—but Chue put down her board and scrambled up the ladder. What was she doing? She took up a position in front of the open roof space, and as a small object came flashing out she caught it in a net.

Everyone, once again including Maomao, was stunned into silence at Chue’s display of dexterity.

Where’d she get that net from?
 Maomao wondered.

“Gotcha!” Chue cried and held the net aloft. She looked so thoroughly proud of herself that it was hard not to be a little annoyed.

She always did love to be the center of attention, and she’d found a perfect opportunity.

A hubbub spread throughout the courtyard, but when Jinshi, the most important person there, told everyone to get back to work, they obligingly scattered. Once the gawkers had moved on, the rest of them could see exactly what was in Chue’s net.

“What in the world is this?” Jinshi asked. He and Basen looked equally astonished. Judging from Basen’s reaction, the bird had gotten away from him before he’d seen exactly what it looked like.

Chue had captured an owl, about thirty centimeters in size. It didn’t look like a normal owl, though—the most striking thing about it was its face, which was eerie and strange, round and white. The feathers ringing its face were black, and if it were somewhere dark and the owl had its wings tucked in, it might well look like a white mask.

However...

“Isn’t it kind of small?” Tianyu asked, unimpressed. He didn’t hesitate to throw himself into the conversation in spite of Jinshi’s presence—the Moon Prince himself. Maomao jabbed him with her elbow. “Oops! Moon Prince, sir. I didn’t realize you were here. Very sorry.”

Maomao was coming to think that Tianyu was not very concerned with etiquette. Not that she was in any position to judge.

Jinshi’s expression was somewhat hard, but superficially, he wore a smile befitting one who “lived above the clouds,” a nobleman. “Considering the commotion, it would have been difficult not to notice. But what exactly were you doing?” he asked.

Playing innocent, are we?
 Maomao thought. Here he’d even sent Basen to do the dirty work.

Maomao, worried what Tianyu would say if left to his own devices, stepped forward before he could speak. “Sir. Rumor has it that an apparition has been spotted in and around this house of late. The soldier attached to the physicians told me that he’d heard about it from a servant, and he’s been investigating it on his patrols of the mansion. The same servant came to him again this very morning, but as our soldier was on guard duty last night, I hesitated to make him deal with it himself.”

Maomao assumed Chue would have filled Jinshi in on their experiences of the night before.

“As a matter of fact, I myself encountered what I take to be that spirit just last night, so I wanted to help find out what was going on.”

“Mm. And what about this physician with you? Presumably he has medical duties to attend to.” Jinshi looked at Tianyu coldly.

Damn. She knew it hadn’t been a good idea to let Tianyu get involved. She glowered at him. He, however, stepped forward with an innocent look. “My humble apologies,” he said as elaborately as possible. “I begged her to let me accompany her. Maomao here is far more accomplished in the mixing of medicines than my inadequate self, and has been graciously teaching me a great deal. When she said that she wished to examine the courtyard, I simply assumed she meant she was going to hunt for herbs and other ingredients, and followed along.”

Why, you little...

He was acting exceptionally polite and wasn’t even getting her name wrong!

Maomao thought Jinshi’s eyes glinted even more brightly. “Hoh, I see. I think I understand what’s going on here. You believe this bird is the alleged spirit?”

“Yes, sir. Anyway, that’s half the answer.” Maomao looked at the owl.

“This place is too public,” Jinshi said. “Perhaps I could ask you a few more questions somewhere else.”

“Certainly, sir,” Maomao said, and off they went.