“Yes. However...” Maomao looked around. The wealth of water and greenery in this house attracted a fair number of birds, but she didn’t see anything that looked big enough to eat mice, at least not at the moment. A bird like that would have scared off its smaller cousins, anyway.

Maomao gave it another moment’s thought, then looked at the building.

“It’s not possible to get up on that roof, is it?” she said.

“I dunno. Want me to throw another handkerchief up there?”

“Think you could get it that far?”

“Doubt it.”

This didn’t seem to be getting them anywhere. Maomao was just thinking it was time to go back when something moved at the edge of her vision. She looked toward it and saw some latticework decoration under the eaves.

“I changed my mind. I do want to climb up to the roof.”

“What? But there’s no way up!”

“There’s got to be something. Let’s find a ladder.”

“Easy for you to say. We probably have to ask the groundskeeper...” Which Tianyu didn’t look about to do. His interest seemed to be flagging.

The groundskeeper? 
That was the old man who’d said he’d seen the head yesterday, wasn’t it?

Maomao headed for where the groundskeeper was cleaning up. “Excuse me! Could we possibly borrow a ladder?”

“What? You think you can just march up and demand something like that?” The groundskeeper was looking very put-upon. He seemed all-around gloomy, maybe on account of his strange encounter the day before. “They told us to be polite to the visitors, but they never said we had to help you climb up and mess around on the roofs!”

“And right they were too,” Tianyu said.

Whose side is he on?!

Tianyu was obviously not going to be any help. Maomao would have to persuade this man on her own.

“I think there’s a bird nesting under the roof,” she said.

“Nesting? You know, now that you mention it, there have been a lot of droppings around lately.”

“Yes, sir. Having bird nests around can only mean more work, so I thought maybe I’d clean it up. I would be perfectly happy if I could just keep any eggs I happened to find—they’re a medicinal ingredient, you know.”

“Medicinal? You don’t even know what kind of bird it is up there.”

“True, sir, but most eggs are very nutritious, regardless of species.”

Maomao was sort of making things up as she went. Most eggs were 
edible
, at least, if you cooked them.

Then she added one last, little push. “I think I might know what’s behind the ghost that’s been terrorizing everyone lately.”

“Y-You do?! Really?!” the groundskeeper said.

“Yes, sir,” she replied, confident she could solve at least half the riddle.

The groundskeeper found a ladder for them in short order, but it was old and rickety and wobbled when they placed it on the ground.

“Let me guess. You want me to climb up on the roof?” Tianyu said.

“You say that almost as if you didn’t want to.”

“I don’t.”

Even Maomao didn’t think she could impose on the old groundskeeper to climb up to the roof, so she resolved to do it herself. The only problem was the gaggle of servants and bureaucrats that had begun to form once the big ladder was put out in the courtyard. (Didn’t they have anything better to do?)

Sadly, none of them volunteered to climb in Maomao’s place; they just stood and stared. One of them, incidentally, was the original official with too much time on his hands: Jinshi was there. Everyone else took a few steps back at the arrival of this VIP.

Jinshi looked at what was going on, aghast, then said something to Basen. Basen nodded and came over to Maomao, his duck following him politely.

“It looks like you’re going to climb that ladder. Let me do it. What do you need up there?”

“You’ll climb up there for me, Master Basen?”

Frankly, if that was the choice, Maomao would rather go herself. Basen’s athletic prowess wasn’t in question, but she worried that he might not...improvise quickly enough.

Besides, who knows what he might do with his outrageous strength?

The duck gave a flap of its wings as if to cheer him on. Maomao’s disquiet only increased.

“You needn’t trouble yourself. I can do it,” she said firmly, but Basen would not be deterred.

“I told you, I’ll go up there. What do you need me to do?”

Basen was clearly here on the presumption that he was going to handle this task. Maomao would have to bend.

“I think—I 
think
, now—that a bird has made a nest in the rafters of the roof. If you find it, do you think you could catch the bird for me?”

“A bird? Ah, birds, I know how to handle,” he said with a glance back at his duck. Domestic ducks, however, did not fly.

“I suspect this bird is nocturnal, so it’s probably asleep right now. If you could sneak up there very quietly, so it doesn’t wake up, please. If you can reach it, grab it.”

“Understood.” Basen was raring to go. Maomao felt less and less sure about this.

“Master Basen, one cannot get into Paradise if one takes a life unnecessarily, remember. Try not to strangle the poor thing.”

“Try not to strangle it...” Basen immediately sounded, well, smaller.

This is bad, bad, bad.

She definitely felt an ominous ripple of foreshadowing. She seriously considered waking Lihaku and asking him to handle this, but then she looked up at the rafters again. He would never be able to fit between them.

“You know, considering the size of the space up there, I definitely think I should do this,” she said.

“N-No, no, I’ll go. You can count on me!” Basen responded.

Then he set off up the ladder, Maomao’s anxiety mounting with every step. If there was a silver lining here, it would be that Basen was so sturdy that he wouldn’t hurt himself if he fell.

Basen made the top of the ladder, then peered in through the latticework along the roofline. He shot Maomao an 
all-good
 gesture.

Guess that means there’s a nest up there.

The latticework was designed to be removable, and Basen pried it away. He ran a rope through it and lowered it to the ground, then wedged himself into the roof space.

The entire assembled crowd, Maomao included, swallowed hard. Everyone seemed strangely silent—then Maomao realized that Chue had wandered up at some point and was holding a board on which she’d written Quiet Please .

For a long moment, nothing happened, and then there was a loud crash.

“Shoot! It got away!” Basen exclaimed.

Oh, come on!

Maomao was beside herself—but Chue put down her board and scrambled up the ladder. What was she doing? She took up a position in front of the open roof space, and as a small object came flashing out she caught it in a net.

Everyone, once again including Maomao, was stunned into silence at Chue’s display of dexterity.

Where’d she get that net from?
 Maomao wondered.

“Gotcha!” Chue cried and held the net aloft. She looked so thoroughly proud of herself that it was hard not to be a little annoyed.

She always did love to be the center of attention, and she’d found a perfect opportunity.

A hubbub spread throughout the courtyard, but when Jinshi, the most important person there, told everyone to get back to work, they obligingly scattered. Once the gawkers had moved on, the rest of them could see exactly what was in Chue’s net.

“What in the world is this?” Jinshi asked. He and Basen looked equally astonished. Judging from Basen’s reaction, the bird had gotten away from him before he’d seen exactly what it looked like.

Chue had captured an owl, about thirty centimeters in size. It didn’t look like a normal owl, though—the most striking thing about it was its face, which was eerie and strange, round and white. The feathers ringing its face were black, and if it were somewhere dark and the owl had its wings tucked in, it might well look like a white mask.

However...

“Isn’t it kind of small?” Tianyu asked, unimpressed. He didn’t hesitate to throw himself into the conversation in spite of Jinshi’s presence—the Moon Prince himself. Maomao jabbed him with her elbow. “Oops! Moon Prince, sir. I didn’t realize you were here. Very sorry.”

Maomao was coming to think that Tianyu was not very concerned with etiquette. Not that she was in any position to judge.

Jinshi’s expression was somewhat hard, but superficially, he wore a smile befitting one who “lived above the clouds,” a nobleman. “Considering the commotion, it would have been difficult not to notice. But what exactly were you doing?” he asked.

Playing innocent, are we?
 Maomao thought. Here he’d even sent Basen to do the dirty work.

Maomao, worried what Tianyu would say if left to his own devices, stepped forward before he could speak. “Sir. Rumor has it that an apparition has been spotted in and around this house of late. The soldier attached to the physicians told me that he’d heard about it from a servant, and he’s been investigating it on his patrols of the mansion. The same servant came to him again this very morning, but as our soldier was on guard duty last night, I hesitated to make him deal with it himself.”

Maomao assumed Chue would have filled Jinshi in on their experiences of the night before.

“As a matter of fact, I myself encountered what I take to be that spirit just last night, so I wanted to help find out what was going on.”

“Mm. And what about this physician with you? Presumably he has medical duties to attend to.” Jinshi looked at Tianyu coldly.

Damn. She knew it hadn’t been a good idea to let Tianyu get involved. She glowered at him. He, however, stepped forward with an innocent look. “My humble apologies,” he said as elaborately as possible. “I begged her to let me accompany her. Maomao here is far more accomplished in the mixing of medicines than my inadequate self, and has been graciously teaching me a great deal. When she said that she wished to examine the courtyard, I simply assumed she meant she was going to hunt for herbs and other ingredients, and followed along.”

Why, you little...

He was acting exceptionally polite and wasn’t even getting her name wrong!

Maomao thought Jinshi’s eyes glinted even more brightly. “Hoh, I see. I think I understand what’s going on here. You believe this bird is the alleged spirit?”

“Yes, sir. Anyway, that’s half the answer.” Maomao looked at the owl.

“This place is too public,” Jinshi said. “Perhaps I could ask you a few more questions somewhere else.”

“Certainly, sir,” Maomao said, and off they went.