She was impressed by how quickly he worked.

“This is what we would call, appropriately enough, a masked owl,” she said. “No normal owl would give the impression of a flying mask—and this one has an unusual coloration.” This owl boasted feathers so dark they were almost black. Usually, even birds with dark-colored bodies had white feathers on their bellies, but other than its face, this one was a uniform dark brown. It would be easy to miss it in the night.

“A masked owl? That’s this, isn’t it?” Jinshi asked, opening to the relevant page of the Shi clan encyclopedia. Coloring aside, the unsettling, masklike face certainly matched the bird in the cage.

Tianyu raised his hand. “May I ask something?”

“Go ahead.” Jinshi sounded somewhat more commanding than usual.

“I agree it looks like it’s wearing a mask, but doesn’t it seem a bit small? It’s a little undersized to be a person’s face.”

Tianyu peered into the cage at the bird. The animal wasn’t fighting; in fact, it looked sleepy. If they put some nesting material in with it, maybe it would doze off.

“The human eye is unreliable,” Maomao replied. “It might be only the white part you’d see floating in midair, but I think it would look bigger than it is.” Then Maomao took a piece of paper from the folds of her robe. She was just looking for writing utensils when Chue took some out and offered them to her. She was nimble, that was for sure. Incidentally, she hadn’t spared the annoyed looks at Basen, who had almost let the bird escape.

Maomao made four dots on the paper, right where a person’s eyes, mouth, and nose would be, and held it up for Jinshi and Tianyu. “People will perceive anything as a human face as long as the dots are in the right place. It’s like how we sometimes see faces in the knots of wooden pillars.”

“So now we know what the mysterious mask was,” Tianyu said. He reached into the cage and poked the owl, which didn’t particularly react.

Taomei appeared carrying a small dish of raw chicken meat. It seemed she was more generous with owls than with ducks. Maybe two predators knew each other.

So the 
bird
 gets meat?

Taomei picked up a piece of chicken with a pair of chopsticks and held it out; the owl promptly took it. It showed no aversion to food offered by humans.

“What about the head, though? You said you’d solved half the riddle. Does that mean you think the head is something else?” Tianyu was no fool; he remembered exactly what Maomao had said.

“A mask and a head? What does that mean?” Jinshi asked.

Maomao began to explain, taking the chance to review everything she knew. “Witnesses began reporting it about two months ago. At the time, some people reported a mask and some said they saw a head, but in the last twenty days or so, most witnesses have reported a head. What’s more, they report it outside the mansion. In my case, I saw the mask, but no head.”

“So you think the mask and the head are different things. If this bird accounts for the mask, then what’s the head?” Jinshi asked.

“About that...” Maomao glanced at Chue.

“Yes? Whatever do you need? Is there something you want from Miss Chue?”

“It’s not you, is it, Miss Chue?”

Maomao considered the timeline. The head had been witnessed starting about twenty days earlier, or in other words, right about the time Maomao and the others had arrived in the western capital. And there was one member of their party who seemed especially prone to doing unusual things.

“How could you, Miss Maomao? Hasn’t Miss Chue been with you the last several days?”

Maomao had to admit that was true. They’d been working in the fields together.

“It was just a hypothesis,” she said. “But I feel like this owl has given me a big piece of the puzzle.” As the owl ate its chicken, she looked at its leg. There, she spotted a small, well-crafted metal ring. “I don’t think it will take us long at all to find out the truth about the head. We just have to set a little trap.”

She smiled at the owl with the unsettling face and gave it a pat on the head.

The next day, Chue appeared at the medical office. Maomao had cleaned up from breakfast and was helping the quack make some medicines. A look at Jinshi’s encyclopedia of herbs had given her some idea as to which of the specimens she’d collected might be useful, and they were experimenting.

“Are you a prophet, Miss Maomao?” Chue asked, blinking.

“I take it you caught the culprit. You weren’t too rough with them, were you?”

“What in the world are you two talking about? I’m so confused,” said the quack, who was in no way part of this conversation. It seemed like a lot of work to explain things to him, so Maomao decided to just have him keep working on the medicines. When he was done with that, she suspected he would make them tea.

“Bingo!” Chue formed a large circle with both arms, a gesture of confirmation.

“Hoh, hoh.”

“Hoh...”