Chue needed no invitation to make herself at home; she sat in a chair and waited for the quack to bring her some sweets. The conversation with Maomao almost seemed ancillary to her goal of treats.

“Don’t worry. It was just like you said, Miss Maomao. We watched the owl’s cage all night long, and when the bird suddenly started making a ruckus, we searched the premises. It was the strangest thing! We found a woman dressed all in black and wearing a bizarre mask.”

Chue related all this with great good cheer, while also grabbing a sip of the tea the quack doctor politely produced. The accompanying snacks were dried fruit, a very western-capitalesque treat.

“Really? Wow, who knew?” Maomao said, a bit taken aback herself to find that her prediction had been so on the mark. “So, was this the person who was keeping the owl?”

Maomao thought about the owl they’d caught. “It was pretty obvious it was a domestic bird. The way it had something on its leg, and wasn’t worried about being in a cage or eating chicken that had already been cut up for it. I don’t think this is an animal she was just keeping temporarily. She’s had it a long time.”

“Plus, there’s something that’s been bothering me about the witness testimony.”

Specifically, a commonality between the reports of the mask, which had started two months earlier, and the reports of the head, which dated from twenty days ago.

“Two months ago... Wouldn’t that be just about the time Empress Gyokuyou’s infamous niece was about to leave for the capital?”

“Oh!” Chue said, evidently catching Maomao’s drift.

“Suppose the owl was intended to be one of the offerings to be taken to the Imperial city, but it somehow got away,” Maomao said.

“Hoh, hoh! You mean, maybe she was trying to catch it so she could have another chance to offer it to the Imperial family now that a member has come all the way here? All right, but why the mask? Trying to hide her identity?”

Maomao had an idea about that, although it wasn’t a clear or certain answer—just one of her guesses.

“Miss Maomao,” Chue said. “Miss Chue may act silly, but she’s nobody’s fool. She would understand that your opinion was just one possibility, and would never accept it uncritically.”

It was Chue’s roundabout way of saying 
Spit it out already
. Maomao saw little choice but to oblige.

“I suspect the mask and the black outfit are to make this person look more like the owl’s mother.”

Chue cocked her head at that.

“Are you familiar with imprinting?” Maomao asked.

“Oh yes, Miss Chue knows all about that. It means that when a bird hatches from its egg, it thinks the first thing it sees is its mother. The same way that duck feels about my little brother-in-law.”

“Yes, exactly. I think maybe whoever raised the owl intended to return it to the wild, and wanted to make sure it didn’t imprint on a human face.”

Judging by the owl’s droppings, it was catching its own food, which meant it knew how to hunt.

“However, it can and will accept meat from a human hand,” Maomao said. “Domesticate an interesting-looking bird like that, and a rich person might buy it as a curiosity, or it could be given as an offering to the nobility.”

“But its keeper didn’t want it to end up that way, so she let it go—or maybe it escaped?”

“This is only a hypothesis, remember.” Maomao refused to speak with certainty.

“It was her bad luck, though, that the owl took up residence right in Master Gyoku-ou’s annex! And when a member of the Imperial family arrived to stay there—well, how terrible!”

“Hypothesis!” Maomao repeated.

“She realized the owl would be quicker to come to her if she dressed the way she had while she was raising it. Then, when she caught it, she planned to release it somewhere far away, somewhere people would never find it.”

“Hypothe...sigh.”

“Don’t worry, I know!”

Perhaps the keeper had used some kind of bird whistle. The owl had responded, but hadn’t come outside.

Regardless of whether Maomao’s guess was accurate, it did gain them one thing.

“The person in black is the owl’s keeper, right?” Maomao asked.

“Yes indeed!” Chue chirped.

They grinned at each other. The quack, still out of the loop, was visibly intimidated by two people who looked to him like they were up to no good.

If Maomao was right that this person had raised the bird from a fledgling, it would bring them close to solving one particular problem. Nianzhen, the former serf, had spoken of the Windreader tribe, and how the Yi clan had granted the tribe their protection.

But I’m betting they didn’t earn the protection of a major clan by just ritually scratching in the dirt.

There was also the question of how they had actually gotten rid of the insects they found. Maomao felt herself being led to one conclusion: the Windreaders had kept birds. As she’d suggested to Jinshi, they might well have used the creatures to communicate. A fast, reliable means of carrying messages would have been very valuable.

For starters, Maomao decided she wanted to meet this masked stranger.