“I’d be very interested if you could explain. If I may say so, you don’t look like someone whose station would normally allow access to this mansion.” Taomei had put it a different way, but she was essentially saying the same thing as Chue. Gaoshun could only look pleadingly at his wife and daughter-in-law, silently begging them not to be quite so rude.

“I was real close with Gyoku-ou’s mom, Master Gyokuen’s wife. She’s a relative of my dad’s. That’s the way we got into selling birds to rich folk. I actually saw Gyoku-ou’s daughter or whoever when we handed the bird over. I tried to ask her to give it back, but it was like she didn’t know what to do. Guess she can’t just give away something she got from my dad.”

“So it was the daughter who let the bird go,” Maomao suggested. She had to admit she didn’t have the most favorable feelings toward the young woman, who had been sent to the Imperial capital as part of a political ploy, but it wasn’t the girl’s fault. Indeed, she didn’t seem like a bad person as such.

“I don’t know about that. You gave the residents of this house an awful fright,” said Maomao.

“Grr,” Kulumu growled, sounding like a wild dog.

“I think we’ve got the idea now, Miss Maomao,” said Chue.

“But that’s not far enough for you, is it, Miss Maomao? There’s something else you want to ask about.”

Chue was right. Maomao wasn’t primarily interested in why Kulumu had been lurking around the mansion.

“All right. Maybe you can compensate us for the trouble you’ve caused by answering a few questions.”

“Yes, I think that’s a fine idea,” said not Kulumu, but Taomei.

Maomao kept one eye on Taomei as she said, “Your family raises birds. Do you ever use them as a means of communication?”

“Not these days. I guess we used to, back in the day, and we know these people who raise pigeons.”

Maomao crossed her arms thoughtfully. “Did you ever practice falconry, then?”

“Yeah, we did. Dad just gave it up ’cause he thought he’d make more selling stuff to rich people. We used to hunt rabbits, even foxes sometimes. That’s the whole reason he didn’t want this egg—you need falcons or hawks to hunt big enough game to make it worth it. What’s better to have around, right? A pet, or something that can hunt? Pets’re easier to raise, though.”

She was right; an owl would only be able to hunt mice, or small rabbits at best.

“In that case, could you train the birds you raised to hunt only specific animals?”

Kulumu frowned at that. “We never did, but I guess it’s not impossible. Sometimes people feed birds one specific thing from the day they hatch, to influence their diets that way. Or you can give them specific rewards based on what they hunt for you. See, in falconry, when the bird brings a kill back, you trade it for food. They could learn what gets them their favorite treats, and then they might start looking more for those things.”

Yes, Kulumu was a sharp one, all right. Notwithstanding her shrill voice, she was far more grown-up than her contemporary Chou-u.

“That means maybe you could teach birds to target grasshoppers,” Maomao mused.

“Grasshoppers?” Basen said immediately. Whatever he thought was going on, it made him turn toward the duck, whose bill was still peeking through the crack in the door.

“Grasshoppers?” Kulumu echoed. “You’d need a bird that wasn’t very big, like this guy. And they like meat better, so it’d be more practical to teach them to trade grasshoppers for food.”

“I see. One more question, then,” Maomao said. She took in a deep breath, then let the words out all at once. “Are you a member of the Windreader tribe?”

That set Kulumu back on her heels for a moment. “How do you know that name?”

Maomao clenched her fist. “So you know about them!”

Kulumu, the self-proclaimed beautiful woman, crossed her arms and went, “Hrm...” Then she said, “I’m not sure I’d go that far. I’ve heard my great-grandpa used to go by that name back when everyone was still living on the plains. My grandma mentioned it to me a few times, but I wouldn’t say I know much about them.”

“Would you tell us what you do know?”

“Hmm. I dunno...” Kulumu was very pleased to discover she had something Maomao wanted. “Can’t tell ya for free...” She smirked. She wanted money!

A predatory pair of eyes glinted behind her. “Speaking of free , perhaps you’d prefer to be handed over to the authorities?” Taomei was smiling. For some reason Basen, who wasn’t even involved here, shrank back, and even the owl fluttered its wings and quivered. Gaoshun wore the impassive expression of a monk contemplating Emptiness, while Chue appeared to be pretending to be a tree.

Kulumu grimaced. No wonder even Gaoshun lived in awe of his wife.

Maomao coughed pointedly. “The negotiating is already over. You answer our questions, and we don’t give you to the law. There’s also the matter of certain future treatment...”

“Yes, for example, we’re still considering what will happen to this owl,” Taomei said, picking up the theme.

“Fine, I get it... My grandma told me that way back in the old days, one of the nomadic tribes was attacked, and most of them were killed. She said the women were taken as brides and the kids were sold as slaves.”

That accorded with what Maomao had learned. But something bothered her.

“I heard the Windreaders used birds. Would this mean that their method of hatching and raising those animals didn’t die with them?”

“Sorry, I don’t think I put it quite the right way. The Windreaders were wiped out. At least, that half of them were.”

“Th-
That
 half?” Maomao and the others stared at Kulumu, open-mouthed.

“What happened to the rest of them?” Maomao asked. “Everyone treats the Windreaders as if they were gone. And the ritual wasn’t able to continue, was it?”