So, in sum, the guide passed information about his clients to the bandits, who attacked people unused to traveling the plains. The same guide had been responsible for the attacks on both Maomao and Rikuson. Chue, anticipating the bandit connection, had put on a little show for him.

Maomao had to pinch her lips tight together to make sure this rejoinder didn’t come out of her mouth.

“—but in Mister Rikuson’s case, it seems there was someone besides the guide pulling the strings.”

“It’s possible. Or it might just have been regular old intimidation. The other possibility Miss Chue can think of is that it goes the other way, and Mister Rikuson wanted to look like a victim. Then again, of course, maybe it really was just a regular bandit attack. If you’d prefer.”

Chue had a surprising talent for drawing lines by implication. She spoke only of facts, without mixing in her own opinion.

Even if she does use me as bait.

Did Maomao bear her a grudge for that? Maybe a little one.

“Understood,” Jinshi said, and gestured to Chue to step back. She straightened up and gave him a perfect bow.

From what I’ve just seen, it almost looks like...

It almost looked like Jinshi himself wasn’t completely sure who Rikuson really was. Everything Maomao had heard, though, made her think he was at least a man loyal to his work.

Jinshi took a sip of his tea, contemplating all he’d just heard. Maomao likewise took a drink, although her tea was cold by now.

This tea’s flavor should make me want something sweet, but... What she really wanted was something salty. No sooner had the thought crossed her mind than a tray of snacks appeared in front of her, delivered by Suiren, who caught Maomao’s eye as she set it down. It bore a pile of plain rice crackers.

“Join me,” Jinshi said, picking up one of the crackers. “It wouldn’t be seemly for me to eat all these by myself.”

“If you don’t mind, then,” Maomao said, one of the crackers practically already in her mouth. There was a noisy crunch as she bit into it. It didn’t seem like particularly fine etiquette, but the salty cracker was so good.

I’ll be able to take some of these with me, right? she thought. Some cookies to take as souvenirs for the quack doctor would be nice too. Ahh, but then there’s Tianyu to worry about.

She could throw the quack off the scent easily, but pulling the wool over Tianyu’s eyes would be harder. Better make sure first.

“Moon Prince. May I ask you a question?”

“Yes? What is it?” Jinshi raised an eyebrow. She had used the name “Moon Prince” because Taomei and the others were there, but he didn’t seem to like it much.

“What shall I do about my position when it comes to one of the new physicians, Tianyu? Unlike the qu—I mean, the master physician, if I come here too often, it will be difficult to keep him from connecting the dots.”

“That’s a good point. Let’s see,” Jinshi said, but then he paused.

It was Suiren who continued, with a smile. “He’s been informed that you’ve known the Moon Prince for some time, since you were training in etiquette in his chambers. Put your mind at ease.”

“Training in etiquette?”

“Yes. It’s not untrue as such.”

“I suppose not...”

The description, frankly, made Maomao feel a little ill. To “train in etiquette” by serving a man of elegance typically meant to prepare to be his wife.

“It’s not untrue,” Suiren reiterated, still smiling.

Maomao took another bite of rice cracker, feeling not the least bit reassured by Suiren’s explanation.

Jinshi appeared to be thinking about something as he ate. “Perhaps we should proceed faster,” he mused.

Inquiring about 
what
 he felt should be hastened seemed likely to invite a very long conversation, so Maomao decided not to ask.