Kulumu’s responses had put the idea in Maomao’s head and she couldn’t get it out again. It would be easy to justify moving the Windreaders into town: the Yi simply wanted to protect them. When, in fact, they wanted to keep them close.

“So the Yi are involved, and Shaoh. Is that all?” Jinshi asked.

“No—there’s one more group.” Kulumu had said something else that had gotten Maomao’s attention. “Kulumu said something that implied that Master Gyokuen’s wife, Master Gyoku-ou’s mother, was of Windreader origin herself.”

So he’s already looked into it.

Why even bother asking about her speculation, then? Behind Jinshi, Chue held up two fingers and grinned. She must have been the one to get the info.

“It seems Sir Gyokuen’s wife played a substantial role in helping his business prosper. Information is as good as gold in business dealings, after all. For him to have amassed as many resources as he has over the course of these several decades, he must possess a power others don’t.”

And now his grandchild stood next in line for the Imperial throne. If Gyokuen was a self-made man, he had made himself better than any other man in the nation.

“No one has a bad word to say about this wife of his. They all say she was intelligent and warm.” That made sense; Kulumu had said she was kind as well. Funny, considering she had something of a shady son.

That was about as far as Maomao needed to delve into this, in her own opinion—but there was one other thing she had to ask. “May I bring up something slightly off the subject of the Windreader tribe?”

“It’s about the farming village we visited. Master Rikuson was there just before we were.”

“Ah, that.” Jinshi looked away from her for a moment, apparently thinking. “I had Rikuson investigated as well. I know he went to inspect the local agriculture. Even though it seems to have been quite difficult for him—he’s been very busy here in the western capital. The visit, though, was about confirming something we’d suspected since his days in the central region.”

“All the way back then, sir?”

“Yes. The reports from I-sei Province didn’t show any major damage to the harvest last year, but it was hard to be sure without seeing for ourselves. So Rikuson found the problem on his desk. Or rather, I put it there.”

“You did, sir?”

“You doubt me?”

“Not exactly. Just curious.”

Rikuson hadn’t been looking his best when they had first arrived at the western capital. It was hard for Maomao not to wonder what he’d been up to. Maybe she was just paranoid?

“Allow Miss Chue to explain why he wasn’t looking his best!” Chue said, stepping forward with an enthusiastic snort. Apparently “Miss Chue” served as her first-person pronoun even in Jinshi’s presence.

“Chue,” said Taomei, a bird of prey eying a presumptuous sparrow.

Geez, Taomei is scary...

“It’s all right. Let her speak,” said Jinshi.

With his permission safely gained, Chue let out a big breath. “Miss Chue already looked into it. On his way home from the village, Mister Rikuson was set upon by bandits! You know the ones, Miss Maomao. Those poor guys who got their arms broken by Mister Basen.”

“Yes, I remember, thank you.”

I remember that “Miss Chue” used me as bait!

“Of course you do. Well, you also remember that the bandits who attacked Miss Chue and her friends were arrested and taken to prison. Later, the bandits’ leaders were apprehended too—one of our informants kindly told us what we wanted to know. We also learned that one of our guides had taken Mister Rikuson to the farming village a few days earlier.”

“It really was complete coincidence that Miss Chue and her friends were attacked—”

Hey, don’t lie to us!

“Someone who wanted to interfere with his visit to the village?” Jinshi asked.