“If—I mean, if 
I
 might, sir. If there’s anything I can do for you, just ask.”

“Wonderful!” Jinshi absolutely beamed at that, and even the quack doctor, supposedly not involved in this discussion, sat there with his mouth working open and shut like a carp on a cutting board. “Perhaps we can go inside, then. I’ll explain everything,” Jinshi said. He snapped his fingers, and immediately Basen and Chue appeared, the former carrying a large roll of paper.

Those two actually get along pretty well, don’t they? Behind the pair stood Gaoshun, who obviously knew what was going to happen. His hands were pressed together and he wore an expression like a bodhisattva.

Jinshi walked into the medical office like he owned the place. As he entered, Tianyu sat up groggily from where he had been napping on the couch. Lihaku, standing guard, shot Maomao a What’s this? look.

“Oh, you know. Stuff,” said Maomao, who thought it would be too much work to explain.

“Huh,” was all Tianyu said, although he sounded interested.

The roll of paper Basen carried turned out to be a map, which he unrolled on the office table. “This is a map of I-sei Province,” he said. It contained plains and mountains and desert. It looked rather empty compared to Kaou Province, but there was a road that cut clear through the middle of it, a trade route connecting east and west.

“It’s got a bunch of circles on it,” observed Tianyu, inserting himself into the conversation as if it were the most natural thing in the world. The quack had managed to get to his feet and was preparing tea. Basen, meanwhile, looked distinctly displeased. If Jinshi hadn’t stopped him, he might have chased Tianyu right out of the room.

We’re standing awfully close. Awfully close to a member of the Imperial family. Was that even allowed? Maybe during his time as a “eunuch,” but what about now? Maomao was worried. She suspected, however, that this was all part of Jinshi’s calculations.

“Lahan’s Brother,” Jinshi said.

The other man snapped to attention. “Yes, sir!”

No objections about his name this time?

“The circles mark areas with farming villages. I fondly hope that you might help instruct them in the ways of fall plowing and cultivating potatoes.” Jinshi wore a smile that could kill a man.

Lahan’s Brother had only just gotten 
back
 from a farming village. He hadn’t even put his tools away!

“Yes, as soon as possible. Perhaps you could leave tomorrow.”

Lahan’s Brother closed his eyes, as if Jinshi’s smile was too blinding to look at. There was nothing he could say in response.

Now I get it.

“Perhaps we should proceed faster,” Jinshi had said. Now she knew what he meant. She was the one who had told him to use those he could use, but she couldn’t help feeling a pang of pity for those who became tools in Jinshi’s hands. It was a very large map and depicted a substantial amount of territory.

“How far is it to the village that’s farthest from the western capital on this map?” she asked Chue, who seemed to have nothing special to do. Maybe she’d just come along for fun today. She didn’t seem to be needed here, but she was probably looking for an excuse to get away from her predator of a mother-in-law.

“Oh, about four hundred kilometers, I’d say,” she replied.

“Four 
hundred
...” Lahan’s Brother was white as a sheet.

“I’d like you to start with the nearest village, then go to the next nearest one. If you’re uncomfortable riding that far, I can have a good, comfortable carriage prepared for you.” Jinshi took Lahan’s Brother’s acquiescence as a given. “If at all possible, I’d like you to finish teaching all of the villages about fall plowing within the next two months. The sooner, the better. Potatoes can come after that, in good time.”

This was, in fact, less about agricultural practice and more about preventing insect plague. Since they couldn’t know what would be most effective, they had to do everything they could—and Jinshi intended to use everything and everyone he could. Maomao felt bad for Lahan’s Brother, but he would just have to take this one for the team. As for what she could do...

Maomao went over to the medicine cabinet and took out some herbs, which she mixed with honey. She cut the mixture with water and put it in a glass drinking vessel, which she offered to Lahan’s Brother along with the quack’s tea. “For you,” she said.

“What’s this?”

“A stamina drink. I’ll prepare a solution that should keep for quite a while, so take some whenever you feel too tired on the road.”

“Why are you assuming I’m going to go do this?!”

“Can you say no?” Maomao asked.

“Do you believe you can say no?” Jinshi asked at almost the same moment.

Maomao certainly didn’t believe he could—that’s why she’d made the drink. She would also prepare some poultices to relieve sore muscles.

Lahan’s Brother, ordinary person extraordinaire , found himself confronted at point-blank range with a request from a man whose beauty could have brought a country to its knees. He couldn’t possibly have it in him to refuse. Jinshi had been counting on it.

Gross
, Maomao thought.

Lahan’s Brother might have been ordinary, but as far as ordinary people went, he was very good at it.

“Won’t you, please? For me?” Jinshi smiled as if to say how much help this would be to him. Lahan’s Brother could only droop, defeated.

Tianyu, who had no stake here, found he had the freedom to chuckle to himself at this other person’s unhappiness, so Maomao gave him a kick in the heel. Lahan’s Brother was so pitiful, even she had to sympathize with him. In politics, however, to lose the initiative was to lose all. A leader had to stay ahead of what was happening in his country, and eliminate all possible sources of trouble. If he failed to do so, the blame would fall on him—and if he succeeded, so would the indifference, for people would simply assume it was his job.

It’s not easy, huh?

Much as she felt for Lahan’s Brother, Maomao knew Jinshi wasn’t wrong to do what he did.