Chapter 16: A Moment’s Peace

For a little while after that, Maomao’s days were peaceful.

That’s not to say there was no work. The medicines in the medical office had to be restocked using ingredients that could be found in the western capital, and she had to make sure they worked as intended. She also tried to gather some medical instruments to make up for the shortfall in what they had.

The freak strategist showed up at the annex more than once, as well. Maomao had been trying to avoid him and the trouble he would cause, but before she knew what was happening, the quack was showing him in and inviting him to tea. She could only put her head in her hands.

About the only other notable event was that Basen’s duck started laying eggs. He got very upset at Maomao when she tried to eat one—he insisted that he would raise the chick, but as it was an unfertilized egg, no chick would be forthcoming. When Maomao told him as much (shades of her lectures at the rear palace), he’d gone bright red. And this was a full-grown adult male? Oof.

She’d had a bit of a fright when she spotted Gaoshun and Taomei walking arm in arm in the courtyard. She’d let her gaze linger a moment too long, surprised and wondering if they got along better than she had realized, when the predator’s eyes flashed. Gaoshun was abruptly shoved away by his wife, who continued to walk along as if nothing had happened. Being shy was one thing, but the younger husband ended up propelled into a pool. A tragedy.

Days turned into weeks, and soon it had been an entire month since Lahan’s Brother had left on his journey. Maomao continued to inspect Jinshi’s burn, but she found it increasingly hard to ignore the desire to take some skin from his backside.

“It sounds like things are going well enough,” Jinshi said one day. He held a crumpled letter which, when he showed it to her, contained a detailed report about the state of some farmland.

“With Lahan’s Brother, you mean?” Maomao asked, inspecting the handwriting, which was neat and careful, although it tended to lean to the right a bit. The letter had to be able to travel by pigeon, so unfortunately, reporting on the current situation consumed all the meager available space. Lahan’s Brother didn’t even have room to sign his name. The letter concluded with the name of the village he’d been in when he wrote it, and that was all.

It’s a real shame, him not having room to sign it , Maomao thought. She could just picture him on some far-flung plain, teeth clenched around a handkerchief as he tried to endure the agony. Would that day ever come when they might discover what he was truly called? No one knew. No one knew.

“Yes, that’s right. I knew this would be useful.” Jinshi looked into the birdcage and smiled. The pigeon cooed. “They may only work in one direction, but being able to communicate information so quickly is a boon.”

He used them in his communications with Empress Gyokuyou as well. Given that he hadn’t raised the subject of her niece lately, Maomao assumed the Empress had the matter in hand.

She looked at the pigeon, which pecked at some millet and burbled again. “So you sent some of these birds with Lahan’s Brother?”

“Yes. I was able to borrow several through that girl—Kulumu, was that her name?”

“How many did you send with him?” Maomao asked offhandedly.

“Three. He seemed capable enough of taking care of them. We can supply him with more by sending a fast rider to his last location.”

Jinshi opened a map of I-sei Province. Suiren appeared and drew circles around the villages from which letters had been received.

Lahan’s Brother’s really been hard at work , Maomao thought. Jinshi had given him the seemingly impossible task of reaching all the villages in two months, but Lahan’s Brother was almost on the return leg of the trip. That guy sure knows how to get a job done.

He also, she suspected, didn’t realize that it was precisely his ability to get a job done that caused people to foist so many on him. If he were clever, he’d have dialed it back by twenty percent or so, instead of going all out every single time.

“Maomao.”

“Yes, sir?”

Jinshi seemed to have grown accustomed to using her name. She remembered how for a long time he’d addressed her merely as “you.”

“I... Hrm. It seems your workload has dropped off recently.”

“Yes, I’d say so.” The most urgent tasks had been taken care of. They’d made enough medicine to hold them for a while, and had even gotten the tools they needed.

“Perhaps you might turn your hand to other things.”

“Oh!” Maomao clapped her hands, remembering. “The wheat harvest is coming up soon. Do you think I could go help with that, sir?”

This didn’t seem to be what Jinshi had been expecting. “The wheat harvest? Why?”

“Sir! I’m very curious if any ergot has grown.”

“Ergot?” It sounded like he didn’t recognize the word.

“It’s a kind of sickness where the wheat becomes black. In simple terms, it’s toxic to eat.”

“Yes, that does sound quite simple.”

“By the time the wheat is ground it’ll be too late to tell, so I’d like to look now.”

Ergot could be used to induce abortions, and there was commonly a good deal of it in poor-quality flour, so it was best to be sure. She could see exactly how large the harvest was at the same time.

“I see. Very well. I’ll prepare a carriage for you.”

“That won’t be necessary, sir. A little bird told me that Master Rikuson will be going for an inspection soon, and I thought I might be able to travel with him.”

The specific species of little bird? The quack doctor, who’d happened to overhear it from somewhere. Maomao had confirmed the validity of the rumor with Chue.

“Rikuson...”

“Yes, sir. There’s a great deal I’d like to talk with him about. I thought it might be a good opportunity.”

She’d ended up not seeing Rikuson again after that first day in the western capital. She needed to talk to him personally.

Jinshi looked briefly conflicted, but then he said, “All right. I’ll inform Rikuson that you’ll be coming.”

“Thank you very much, sir.”

There was one other thing she wanted to do on this trip—gather medicinal herbs from the plains on the way. Some of her specimens from the previous trip had yielded promising results. She’d better hurry and go get a basket to put them in.

“If you don’t mind, then, Master Jinshi, I’ve got to be going!”

“Hey!”

Jinshi looked like there was something else he wanted to say, but Maomao ignored him. She trotted off, practically skipping away to get everything ready.

A few days later, Maomao left for the farming village.

“It is. The weather can be fickle, though. I’ve even heard of hailstorms occurring around harvesttime.”