All right, enough. If I’m going to think, I need to work while I’m doing it.

Maomao borrowed a stove and began making a huge pot of soup. She wished she could make it with some nice, astringent soy paste—her personal preference—but she suspected it might not be to the villagers’ tastes. Instead she fried up some vegetables in oil, put plenty of salt on them to give them some flavor, and then added them to a stew of milk and dried meat.

The ironic thing is, people from the central region would turn up their noses at too much milk.

She added some fragrant herbs to make it less pungent. A bit of flour to thicken it, and she started to think she might have a winner on her hands.

Wish I could do some dumplings, but I think we’d better not.
 Instead she would get fried bread for the entrée.

Maomao poured the soup into bowls and put the bowls on a tray, then zipped around handing them out to the workers.

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao! One for Miss Chue, please!” Chue flounced up to her. She’d practically transformed herself into one of the villagers, carrying a knife in her right hand and a sack in her left. The sack was full of ears of grain.

Maomao gave Chue some stew. “You’re only taking the ears of grain?” she asked.

“It was Mister Nianzhen’s idea! He said if the harvest was the only important thing, it would be faster to collect just the ears.”

Yes, that certainly would be faster than having to bend over and cut down every stalk.

Maomao and Chue sat down on a nearby fence to enjoy their meal. Maomao had already eaten her stew, so she munched on some bread.

“There won’t be time to dry everything, and it won’t fit inside if the stems are still on,” Chue said.

Wheat straw was used as livestock feed and for daily necessities like reed mats. It was an important secondary product, but right now there were more important things to focus on.

“Oh me, oh my, but money is a powerful thing, isn’t it? All we had to do was whisper in their ears ‘The straw can come later,’ and look!”

The villagers had immediately traded their sickles for small knives. The children went from field to house dragging bags full of ears of grain.

“Now they’re drying them inside because the ears would fly away in the wind out here.”

“You’re quite good at getting your way, aren’t you, Miss Chue?”

“Oh, yes. You should see how I motivate my husband on nights when he’s not in the mood!”

Maomao had a thought: perhaps her brothel humor, which so frequently fell flat, would land with Chue. Sadly, no really good jokes came to mind at that moment.

She finished the last of her modest meal, vowing to work up a routine she could share.

Rikuson had been exactly right to tell the people they had three days to collect the grain: with a firm deadline in place, everyone busied themselves thinking of ways to harvest more efficiently. By the second day, more than half the grain had been taken in.

Basen, with his immense strength, proved his worth now. He could carry a full bag of grain in each hand, doing what would otherwise require several full-grown adults.

“Oh no! What are you doing? You are hopeless, little brother-in-law!” Chue cried. Basen, trying to repair a house, had only ended up doing more damage, making himself a target for more teasing from Chue.

We can’t have the storehouses full of holes , Maomao thought. She was patching a house with mud and clay—wood was precious in this part of the country, so earth would have to do.

“I think we were just in time,” Rikuson said, looking up at the sky. Maomao looked too, and saw a small black cloud beyond the hills.

“Isn’t it a little early for the rainy season?” she asked.

“Yes... Yes, it is.” Rikuson looked pained. “A cloud at this time of year is rather troubling.”

That sounded very ominous and all, but Maomao wasn’t sure exactly what he meant.

“What’s that about the clouds?” Basen asked as he passed by, lugging a couple bulging sacks of grain as if they weighed nothing at all.

“I merely meant that it’s not a good thing to see a rain cloud at this time of year,” Rikuson said, pointing to the sky to the east.

“I hear you. There’s another cloud over there. Is that a bad sign too?”

“Over there?” Rikuson looked. Basen was pointing in the opposite direction. “I’m afraid I don’t see anything.”

“Hee hee! My little brother’s eyes are hopelessly good,” Chue broke in. “Regular folk might like to have a telescope on hand, though.” Even Chue didn’t appear to carry one of those, because she leaned forward and squinted.

Maomao joined her, narrowing her eyes and peering toward the western sky. “Clouds, clouds...”

She thought she heard a faint buzz. Then she saw some black specks that wavered in the air. They didn’t look like any rain cloud she’d ever seen.

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao!”

“Miss Chue, Miss Chue!”

The two of them looked at each other and nodded.

Maomao grabbed the soup pot and a pestle lying nearby and banged them together. She raced through the village, crying, “Grasshoppers! The bugs are on their way!”

Chue found some men sitting around drinking tea and gave them each a smart smack. “You heard her! Grasshoppers, incoming!”

They had to do anything they could to light a fire under these villagers. Panic would solve nothing, but at that moment, they needed everyone to give everything they had.