Chapter 17: Disaster (Part 1)

“What? A plague of insects?” a villager said, sounding exasperated.

Maomao had immediately requested the headman to gather the farmers. There were so many people packed in the place where they were meeting that it was almost hard to breathe.

“Yes! It will be here soon—within days!” Maomao said, desperate.

The villagers only laughed. “Yeah, okay, there were some bugs last year, but look at the windfall this year! Everything’s fine!”

“He’s right. The weather will be fine for a while yet. No need to trip all over ourselves getting the harvest in,” said someone else.

Then, however, someone in the group growled, “Ya lazy bastards! We’ll never make it in time with that attitude!”

“Nianzhen...” Maomao said.

It was the old one-eyed man who had lived through a plague of insects so terrible that people had resorted to cannibalism. He made no attempt to hide his anger with the villagers and their blasé attitude. He slammed the table with his right hand, the one that lacked a pointer finger.

“You lot wouldn’t know, because you won’t 
listen
! Nothing can save you now. Me, I’m going out there and I’m going to start harvesting this minute.”

“Is’t really as important as all that, Nianzhen?” the headman asked. In a village full of very newly minted farmers, the former serf was the oldest and most experienced of all. Even the headman couldn’t dismiss him out of hand.

“I haven’t had my lunch yet, headman. Think I could go grab a bite?” asked one of the villagers, sounding entirely unconcerned.

Thank goodness Basen isn’t here. They’d made him wait outside, knowing that anywhere that Basen went, his duck was sure to follow. A quick glance confirmed that the duck was there, playing with the local kids.

Maomao was convinced that talk was futile. They should be spending this time getting started on the harvest.

Just as she was really starting to fret about what to do, Rikuson stepped forward. “Perhaps you would help if you felt there was something in it for you?” He gave them that pretty-boy smile. “We’ll buy your grain. At twice the market price.”

There was a heavy, jangly 
thump
 as Rikuson dropped a bag onto the table. It was obviously stuffed with money, easily more than a farmer would make in a year.

The villagers were immediately riveted on it.

“You... You mean it?”

“We’re gonna hold you to that, you know.”

Their eyes were feral.

“Yes, but only whatever’s in excess of your taxes. Furthermore, it only applies to whatever you can gather in the next three days.” Rikuson’s gentle tone never faltered, but what he was asking for was impossible. And yet, the fire that sparked in the villagers’ eyes never went out.

That’s the power of cold, hard cash
, Maomao thought.

The villagers streamed out of the meeting place and got to work. They went back home and gave sickles to their wives, their children, their elderly family members.

Once they were alone in the hall, Maomao turned to Rikuson. “Are you sure about this? Are you even at liberty to make a promise like that?”

“If there is a plague of locusts, then grain will fetch far more than twice the average price, and we’ll come out ahead. If there’s no plague, well, I won’t have any complaints about that. Is there a problem here?”

“No, none at all.”

She should have expected him to be quick when it came to calculations like this. He’d said his mother was a merchant, and even more tellingly, he was on good terms with Lahan.

Chue, apparently inspired by what Rikuson had done, was looking highly motivated. “Are we going to work too? I think I’ll help in Mister Nianzhen’s field. What about you, Miss Maomao?”

“Me... I think I’ll get ready to help make food. And I’ll make pesticide too.”

She flipped through the encyclopedia of herbs Jinshi had given her, looking for anything that might help kill bugs. She had some misgivings about producing pesticides right next to the food they were going to hand out for people to eat, but desperate times called for desperate measures. Maomao was virtually certain the plague would occur. The only question was when.

Where was Lahan’s Brother last?

He’d been about to begin the return leg toward the western capital, but he was still deep in the western reaches of I-sei Province. He’d encountered a swarm of grasshoppers there, and had managed to dash off his message and get the pigeon in the air before the bugs were upon them.

But he didn’t have time to find proper writing utensils. The situation had obviously been desperate. The grasshoppers were already starting to carve their swath of destruction. In all likelihood they would begin moving east, toward the western capital, eating everything in their path.

It’s started now. There’s no delaying it any longer. The only questions were how they could bring this to an end, and what that would entail.

First they had to save as much of the grain from the ravenous insects as they could—harvest it, get it inside, and make sure the storehouses were shut up so tight that not a single grasshopper could get in. Now the challenge began. She didn’t have to find the best solution, she just had to keep looking for a better one.

The villagers were in the fields, harvesting grain as fast as they could.

I worry whether it’s going to rot.

Normally, grain would be allowed to sit outside several days to dry—but what should they do here? More than anything, they needed places to store the harvest.

“Good point.”

However, more delicate work, as always, eluded him.