“If I made a sound, I would have been killed too. But I couldn’t—couldn’t cry out, couldn’t yell. My mother, knowing very well that I would have screamed my rage and tried to jump on the killers, stuffed a gag in my mouth and bound me hand and foot. So it was that, unable to do anything, I watched my mother and sister die—but because of that, I survived.”

Whatever had happened in the past was no concern of hers—but if, as a result of his experiences, Rikuson was able to save this village, then she had to be grateful for those experiences. And, too, she had to acknowledge his uncommon courage.

She wasn’t Rikuson. She had no way of knowing how he would have reacted if she’d responded with an excess of emotion. He was a grown man, not some sullen teenage girl, so she’d figured there was no need to shower him with fulsome sympathy.

Rikuson smiled again. “I feel like you and I get along quite well, Maomao. Do you think I could seek your hand in marriage?”

“Yes, of course. Surely,” Rikuson said, and chuckled.

I’m not sure I realized he was the type to make that kind of joke , Maomao thought, surprised. Then again, he’d said something similar last year, the last time they’d been in the western capital. Maybe this was just another side of him.

Chue poked her head into the conversation. “Wow-ow! Are you going to leave Miss Chue out in the cold? Is there room for one more in your little relationship drama?”

“Miss Chue is a married woman,” Rikuson said mildly.

“Yes! Married with child! But everyone says I don’t look it. How’d you know?” Chue gave him a puzzled cock of the head.

She really 
doesn’t
 look it.
 Chue was far, far removed from Maomao’s idea of an ordinary housewife.

“Well, you see, the eldest son of the Ma clan is famous in certain circles.”

“Oh, yes! My husband passed the civil service exam when he was in his teens—that’s enough to make anyone famous. Sad to say, he quit pretty quick, though. Thanks to him, Miss Chue had to go right back to work after the birth!” She placed her hands together.

“And what’s become of your child? It can’t be very old yet, can it?” Rikuson asked.

“My sister-in-law is taking excellent care of it!”

Maomao had been aware of the existence of this child, in general terms, but now she found that Chue didn’t seem to be remotely concerned about her offspring. Maomao realized that not only had she never heard the child’s name, she didn’t even know whether it was a boy or a girl. Even knowing that Chue’s sister-in-law, Maamei, would no doubt do an excellent job raising the child, her approach seemed laissez-faire in the extreme.

“All right, I have to get back to helping with the grasshoppers,” Rikuson said with a polite bow of his head.

Just as Maomao was wondering what, in fact, she would do, a voice came from behind her.

“Heeey!” She turned to find Nianzhen waving at her. What did the one-eyed old man want? “Y’have any more of that poison?”

“Poison?” Maomao gave him a questioning look.

“The one that kills bugs! The one you boiled up in that big pot. I’m gettin’ nowhere crushing insects one at a time. I want to scatter that stuff on everything and wipe them out.”

“Oh! You mean the pesticide.” Maomao had a hazy memory of her desperate quest to make the stuff.

“Poison...”

Maomao wanted to point out that that wasn’t exactly what it was, but Rikuson stopped as he was leaving to say, “Yes, that poison was astoundingly effective.”

“All right, hold on...”

“Oh! It’s the Poison Lady!” said one of the villagers who had spotted Maomao. “Think you could whip up some more poison for us?”

“Yes, I need some poison, please. The kind you have to thin out to keep it from killing anyone!” said another villager.

“That poison worked like nothing I’ve ever seen. What in the world was in it?”

The villagers crowded around her.

It’s not p-p-p...

Before Maomao could get the words out, Chue clapped her on the shoulder. She gave her a knowing look and shook her head. Maomao swallowed hard.

“Please, use it only as directed,” she said.

And so Maomao found herself gathering toxic herbs once again.

About the time Maomao had made a generous quantity of pesticide, Lihaku called, “Heeey, little lady!”

“Yes? What’s the matter?”

“Looks like you’re all set making your poison. I thought maybe instead of sticking around here, we should head back to the western capital to report in. I can leave the soldiers who came out here with me to help clear away the rest of the bugs. Sound all right?”

“Yeah, might be a good idea... And by the way, this isn’t poison, it’s pesticide.”

Maomao looked out at the village. She’d shown the farmers how to make the pesticide, and even written simple instructions for them.

“If we don’t hurry back, that old fart’s gonna figure out he’s been had,” Lihaku said.

“Oh, right. He was told I was somewhere there was no plague, wasn’t he? I’m impressed he believed it.”

However crazed he might have been, the freak strategist’s inexplicable sixth sense always seemed to be up and running. Strange to think someone had successfully lied to him.

“Our buddy Jinshi is no mean tactician himself. He used the ol’ doctor.”

The ol’ doctor. In other words, the quack. Maomao knew Jinshi had been making nice with the physician recently. She wondered how he had used him.

“He explained to the ol’ doctor what was going on with you, and let 
him
 let the old fart know. Y’know, he told him indirectly!”

Maomao went quiet: that really 
was
 a good idea. Also, 
the ol’ doctor
 this and 
the old fart
 that seemed like it could get confusing.

The quack doctor was a pudgy, middle-aged man, but in zoological terms he was sort of in the same category as mice or squirrels. He occupied roughly the same place in the hierarchy as Basen’s duck.

“Once things have quieted down, we need to show up in a hurry or the old fart will start to smell something fishy.”

Maomao looked at her palm. It was still visibly marred from making the pesticide. “What do we do about this?” she asked.

“I have a little change of clothes for you!” Chue said, promptly producing them.

“Just tell everyone something went a bit wrong, y’know? You’ve already got all that stuff on your left arm,” Lihaku said, gesturing at the offending appendage, which was covered in scars from Maomao using herself as a test subject for her medicines. She’d never specifically mentioned it, but apparently he had figured it out.

Come to think of it...

As overprotective as the freak strategist could seem, he’d never once objected to her being a food taster, checking for poison. He would instantly put the screws to anyone who threatened to harm Maomao in the slightest way—but maybe he chose not to interfere when it came to threats Maomao chose for herself.

She wondered if Lihaku had one of his instinctive reads on that aspect of the strategist.

“Good point,” she said. She figured he was right: no one would question a minor injury to her hands at this point. “All right. Shall we go home?”

So she put the devastated village behind her.