Poink! went Chue’s unruly hair—she seemed to think Jinshi might ask her opinion, but she never got a turn to talk.

“Very well. You’ve done good work, Lihaku. You can return to your post,” Jinshi said.

“Sir,” Lihaku replied smartly, and left the room. The duck, for reasons unknown, followed him. Her rump quivered as she went—maybe she needed to poop.

Maomao would have assumed that was impossible, but then again, if the animal desecrated Jinshi’s chambers, Taomei was apt to roast her on the spot. Maybe the duck, sensing mortal danger, had decided to go outside. If so, it was an impressive trick.

Maomao turned to follow them, but immediately found Suiren blocking her exit.

“Ho ho ho. Perhaps you’d spare us just a little more of your time.”

When she put it that way, Maomao had no choice but to do an about-face.

Jinshi was no longer wearing his Moon Prince expression. “Is your head all right?” he asked. Basen must have told him about the wayward piece of hail and Maomao’s subsequent bout of unconsciousness. When she looked closely, she could see dark bags under Jinshi’s eyes, and his lips were dry.

“I’m not sure, sir. Sometimes a person drops dead out of the blue a few days after being hit on the head.” Even if there were no external wounds, bleeding inside the head could, apparently, still cause death.

“Then you need to be lying down!”

“No, sir. My time will come when it comes, and about the only person who could do anything about it would be my father.” Him, or perhaps Dr. Liu, but neither was here in the western capital. “So I would prefer to do what I can, while I can.”

“Explain that right hand, then.” He seemed to have noticed Maomao’s bandages.

“Scars from an experiment,” she said slowly.

“I thought you didn’t use your dominant hand for that.” He gave her a long, hard look—the reverse of their usual positions. At length he said, “Hrm. Well, fine. More importantly...you’re all right. That’s what matters.”

She saw how his hand clenched and unclenched, and realized the “Moon Prince” had reverted entirely to Jinshi. It was almost childlike—and indeed, distressingly human.

“You must be tired. You should return to your room and get some rest.”

Now that, Maomao was grateful to hear. Chue threw her hands in the air in celebration, until she saw the look on her mother-in-law’s face and put them down again.

Maomao was eager to go back to her room, but there was one thing she needed to know. “Master Jinshi, are you not doing anything about the swarm yourself?”

It might not sound like a very respectful question—and it wouldn’t help that she’d slipped back to calling him Jinshi instead of “Moon Prince.” But after all his planning and preparation for how to deal with the plague of insects, surely he shouldn’t be lounging in his guest suite right now. Maomao pressed the point: “In these unprecedented times, surely there’s much that you could still be doing, sir?”

Her point seemed to get across.

“As you know, I am a 
guest
 here,” Jinshi said, returning to his official tone. “What I can personally do on the ground is limited. So I prepared a gift for those who 
can
 do whatever they wish.”

Maomao recalled the sweet potato congee being distributed in the marketplace.

“I saw sweet potato congee being passed out,” she said.

“Good to know they’re using it as intended.”

Jinshi had already given the provisions to the western capital. It would be the capital’s ruler who got the goodwill for handing them out. The townspeople’s gratitude would be directed toward whoever had given them the food.

He’s plucked this moment right out of Jinshi’s hands! Jinshi had done all the work, but Gyoku-ou would get all the credit.

“It’s also clear enough why they allowed me to send messengers to the villages at my will. If nothing happened, they would get to blame the Imperial younger brother for trying to stir the people up. And if something did happen, the western capital would still be seen to have sent word.”

Jinshi was a far more straightforward person than he looked at first glance, and he put the nation first without regard for faction or alliance. He could be a terribly useful pawn if someone knew how to play him.

Then this convenient catastrophe had arrived.

“These westerners seem to have planned all along to use us central visitors as their errand boys and girls. We were at least saved from the worst of it in that the honored strategist took the fore.”

There were people who found this more painful than Maomao. Basen remained resolutely expressionless, while Suiren and Taomei looked less than cheerful. Gaoshun, meanwhile, was nursing a very deep furrow in his brow.

“This seems to be the true reason I was summoned here—to serve as a convenient foil,” Jinshi said.

Astoundingly, the interim ruler of the western capital, Gyoku-ou, was trying to use the Imperial younger brother as his own supporting actor. Is he trying to make himself the hero of this story? Maomao clenched her fist as she realized what was going on.

They were going to be in the western capital for a while. Gyoku-ou might have been Empress Gyokuyou’s brother, but even so, Maomao had the feeling she was never going to learn to like him very much. Meanwhile, Jinshi, who seemed to keep drawing the short straw, couldn’t hide his mounting exhaustion from those closest to him.

He needs to get some sleep, and soon.

Maomao was just about to try to bring an end to the conversation when Suiren called, “Basen, your duck is making a racket outside!”

“Jofu? Is something wrong?”

“That masked owl is back. Maybe returning it to the wild wasn’t so easy...”

“It’s used to humans now,” Taomei said, breaking into a smile at the mention of the owl. Maomao was sure now: Taomei appreciated the bird as a fellow predator.

“Do you think you could go take a look? You know how to handle that thing, don’t you?” Suiren said.

“When you put it that way, I suppose...” Masterpiece of a woman though she might have been, even Taomei had to give in the face of a veteran lady-in-waiting like Suiren. Basen, worried about his duck, hurried outside too. It was already dark, so Chue lit a lantern. The sweet smell of honey floated through the air.

“Miss Chue, perhaps you’d help me with dinner preparations?” Suiren said.

“Oh, yes, 
certainly
!” Chue replied, somehow theatrically.

Suiren gave Maomao a wink.

I get it. Real nice.

Without prompting, Gaoshun trotted out after them. He would be nearby, so as to come quickly if he were needed.

Once the two of them were alone in the room, Maomao took a deep breath, then heaved a sigh. “Master Jinshi.”

“Yes?”

“Don’t you think you’re pushing yourself too hard?”

The last vestiges of the Moon Prince vanished. “Is there ever a time when I’m not?”

From the moment he had been born a member of the Imperial family, 
freedom
 had not been a word in his vocabulary. Maomao realized she had simply asked the obvious.

“How much more ‘too hard’ can you push yourself, then?” There had to be a limit to how much Jinshi could take.

“You ask tough questions. We don’t know where the limit is until we find it, do we?”

“Most people who ruin themselves beyond repair do it at work, while continually swearing they can keep going.”

That left Jinshi quiet for a moment, but his face darkened. “Isn’t that what an apothecary is for? To make them better?”

“Yes, sir. More or less. Shall I prepare an herbal bath for you?”

“No...” Jinshi held out his hand.

Huh?

Maomao stared at it, trying to decide if it had some significance. His hand was large, the fingers long. The nails were neatly clipped and filed.

The large hand stretched a little farther and placed itself on Maomao’s head.

Yikes!

He mussed her hair as if he were petting a dog. She tried to slap him away, but he dodged her nimbly.

“What the hell, sir?” she asked, patting her disheveled hair back into place. She hadn’t had a chance to bathe for several days, so it felt thick and greasy.

“I simply made myself better. So I wouldn’t reach my limit so soon.” Jinshi held his head high, as if to say he hadn’t done anything wrong.

“There must be better ways to do that, sir.”

“Is that an invitation to utilize these...ways?”

Neither of them said anything.

Maomao backed away a half step and crossed her arms in an X.

“Tell me about these ‘better’—”

“Okay, I’ve reported everything I have to report! If you’ll excuse me!” And then, with an artful dodge, Maomao ducked out of the room.

Outside, she let out a long breath. 
He’s been so indirect lately that I’d forgotten.

Jinshi’s true personality was to charge ahead. His methods could be brutal. If he had been showing restraint with Maomao, it was only because of the ridiculous way he’d decided to go about this.

Walking around in hopes of clearing her head, Maomao found an owl, a duck, Basen, and, for some reason, even a goat running around outside.

That goat belongs to Miss Chue.

They were turning this annex into a farm.

They have the freedom to do that.

The scene was simultaneously ridiculous and amusing. Maomao felt the edges of her mouth creep upward, and she clenched her fist, vowing to make more pesticide tomorrow.

She was going to be in the western capital for a while yet. If she was going to tell Jinshi not to push himself too hard, then she should take her own advice.

But still, she would do everything she could. She had to.