Chapter 20: Confirmation

When she got back to the western capital, she found it in a bad state.

Things really were worse here , she thought. She surveyed the city with a sense of detachment. There were still grasshoppers on the roads and crawling along the walls of buildings. Sometimes she saw black clumps squirming, but she chose not to look too closely.

She suspected the actual number of grasshoppers was less than it had been in the village, but she could see chewed-up street stalls and gnawed fruit on the ground everywhere.

City folk don’t cope well with insects.

The people here had probably reacted to the swarm very differently than the villagers. She saw hardly anyone outside. The farmers had their crops to think of, so they tried to exterminate the bugs to keep the plants safe, but simple fear ruled the inhabitants of the western capital.

“How bad was the chaos?” she asked Lihaku, who was sitting on the driver’s bench. Rikuson had said he would stay in the village for a few more days. That was all well and good for the villagers, but Maomao was surprised that he didn’t feel he should return to the western capital to deal with this emergency.

“It was bedlam. Rain and hail!”

“Didn’t anyone warn them the swarm was coming?” If Jinshi had managed to send word even to her, he must have had some plan in place in the capital.

Lihaku, however, said, “This is the western capital. There’s an order to things, y’know?”

“I see...”

Jinshi could hardly run through the streets shouting at the top of his lungs. Unlike Maomao, he had his position to think of. He could do nothing unless he did it through the officials here in the city.

“Looks like he did better than 
nothing
, though,” Lihaku said.

In a large town square, there was what appeared to be a food distribution taking place. Maomao was surprised—had the bugs really caused that much damage and exhaustion? It had been several days, though. Not every household was going to have extensive provisions on hand.

A lot of poor families are living hand to mouth to begin with. Often, it was the best they could do to earn a day’s wage, then spend it at a stall for dinner that night. A handful of places to eat were still open, but in the chaos, distribution networks had dried up, and they didn’t have much to serve.

Maomao could smell the congee being passed out even from where she was. The smell made her think: Lahan’s Brother.

It was the smell of sweet potatoes, maybe from the huge supply that had come with her and the others on the ships. The potatoes were being cooked and served to fill the bellies of the starving townsfolk.

“So they’re using up the potatoes on this distribution,” Maomao observed.

“Oh, Lahan’s Brother, we hardly knew ye... It hurts so much to lose him...” Chue’s eyes brimmed with tears. She was treating him like he was dead?

“I’d say if they’re coming in useful, that’s fine, isn’t it? I’m sure Potato Guy is out there somewhere, smiling,” said Lihaku.

Out there? Where would that be? From the way Lihaku talked, it was hard to tell if he thought Lahan’s Brother was alive or dead.

The carriage arrived at the annex. People gathered at the gate when they heard the whinnying of the horses. Specifically, the people were the quack and Tianyu.

“Young lady! You’re back!” An exhausted-looking, haggard man raced up to Maomao. Lihaku grabbed him by the scruff of the neck before he could collide with her. The little guy struggled and flailed—it was the quack doctor.

“Master Physician, are you all right?” Maomao said with a bow. Lihaku put the quack back on the ground.

“What about you, young lady? You’re all right, aren’t you? I know you were somewhere safe, but you must have been so scared! I certainly was! I would have sworn the world was coming to an end!”

“Yes, sir. I know you faint at the sight of a cockroach.”

He’d come to her white as a sheet more than once after encountering a particularly vicious bug while cleaning. A swarm of grasshoppers must have been a living hell for him.

“It’s not fair, Niangniang. Why did you get to evacuate? Man, it must be great having real connections!” Tianyu was as full of sarcasm as ever, although Maomao wasn’t sure how far he actually believed what Jinshi had said.

“Are you sure it’s all right to leave the medical office empty?” Maomao asked. That was, truly and sincerely, the first thing on her mind when she saw them.

“Ahh, we’re not that busy,” Tianyu said. “Maybe ’cause we’re mostly supposed to take care of the Moon Prince. Dr. You and the others, now, 
they
 have a lot to do!”

The two of them have time on their hands because they’re in charge of Jinshi? Something about that seemed strange.

“That reminds me, young lady! Master Lakan was 
so
 very worried about you!”

“Oh.”

That was not especially useful information.

“He seems to have quite a sweet tooth. You should take some mashed sweet potato treats and go say hello to him. He was ravenous for them the other day!”

She wished she could ignore the good doctor’s suggestion, but if she did, she suspected the other party would only come visit her instead. Anyway, she had a bigger problem: the quack was taking advantage of Lahan’s Brother’s absence to cook their seed potatoes.

“Gracious, young lady, you’re hurt! What in the world happened to your hand?”

“Oh, it’s nothing to worry about. I was making pesticide. It’s from experiments with that.”

“Experiments? You’re not an insect, young lady!” The quack looked genuinely perplexed.

“If it can kill a cat, it’ll work for sure on a bug,” Tianyu interjected.

“All right, you two, that’s enough chatter,” Chue said as she came into the room. “We have 
lots
 we want to tell you!”

“Tell us?” the quack said.

“About this bug-killing concoction.”

“Ahh, yes, of course. Sorry, sorry.” The quack politely made way. Tianyu didn’t look like he was going to be a problem—he’d only shown up to make smart remarks.

Many important people, not just Gyokuen, lived in excessively large houses, but Jinshi’s chambers were located in the innermost sanctum of this one. That was all very respectful to him as a guest, but frankly, it was a real hike.

“All right, nobody’s clothes are rumpled? Excellent,” Chue said, inspecting Maomao’s and Lihaku’s outfits. Maomao saw a stray hair or two on Chue’s head, so she patted it down.

“Excuse me, we’re he—” Maomao said, but she was interrupted by a tremendous crash the moment they entered.

Jinshi was sitting in a somewhat less than formal posture. Suiren and Taomei attended him as usual, while Gaoshun and Basen were there too, both looking a bit uncomfortable. “Quack!” quacked the duck next to them. Would it be better to say something quippy about the bird, or not?

Basen had left the duck behind, and she had returned with Maomao and the others. The way she’d gone straight back to Basen the moment they’d arrived at the annex—she was more like a dog than a duck.

Seems like Gaoshun’s sort of thing , Maomao thought. Contrary to appearances, he had a soft spot for sweet treats and small animals. He probably found the duck’s presence healing.

Okay, can’t spend all my time looking at the duck.

She glanced at Lihaku to ask how they would handle the report. He took a half step back—apparently he wanted her to do the talking. Chue likewise retreated.

“We’ve just returned, sir,” Maomao said, standing a little straighter and talking a little more properly because Taomei was there. If it were just Gaoshun or Suiren, that would be one thing...

“Very good,” Jinshi said with an air of detached authority. He seemed to feel the same way as Maomao, because his face wore his proverbial “Moon Prince” mask. Taomei had been one of Jinshi’s nursemaids, Maomao gathered, but her... approach to child-rearing had been rather different from Suiren’s.

“And how was it?” he asked.

A fair question, but about all Maomao could do was repeat what she had heard from Chue. “The harvest was severely impacted, but not annihilated. As far as the wheat goes, we think there’s about seventy percent of a normal year’s harvest left.”

“Then Lahan’s Brother’s message reached you in time.”

He even calls him that in official meetings?

Maybe even Jinshi didn’t know the man’s name. If he never came back, Maomao wondered what they would put on his tombstone.

“We dispatched messengers to the other villages, but by all accounts, we saved less than half the harvest. And there are some places the messengers haven’t come back from yet—I can only assume things are worse there.”

As hard as he had worked, Lahan’s Brother simply couldn’t reach everyone in time. Worse, no matter how much he had endured for the sake of the villages he did reach, the rest would simply assume the higher-ups had ignored and abandoned them. Struggle as he might, Lahan’s Brother was never going to reach the finish line.

“Lihaku. How many people do you think we need to send to each village?” Jinshi asked.

“I’d say at least ten, sir. We’ll need some to take care of the bugs and some to help rebuild the houses, but the thing that worries me most is...”

“Violence? Or brigandage?”

“Both, really.”

Natural disasters like this turned life upside down for people—and that tended to do the same to the human heart. A ravaged heart could soon turn to thievery or violence. Jinshi was already thinking about what came after the grasshoppers.

Can ducks be housebroken?

“Can I help you?” Maomao asked.

Oh...

“Using it?”

“B-But...”