Chapter 4: Spring Comes to Basen (Part 1)

“Quack, quack!” said a voice.

Basen looked at the yellow-beaked, moist-eyed, fluffy-feathered white duck in front of him.

“I guess this is goodbye, duck.”

Basen had received several secret orders from the Moon Prince over the past several months. One of them concerned the likes of this domestic white duck. It was a classic bit of livestock: easy to raise, and it frequently laid eggs.

In fact, raising ducks had been the mission in question.

At first, Basen had thought the Moon Prince must be making fun of him. For all the flaws he might have, he hailed from a clan that had historically been charged with guarding the Imperial family—and now he was supposed to look after some waterfowl? He began to wonder if the Moon Prince had abandoned him.

Such, however, was not the case.

“The raising of livestock will save this country from much unhappiness, and I’m confident that you will pursue the duty diligently,” Basen had been told. If the Moon Prince was willing to give him such a vote of confidence, he could hardly decline. This had been near the end of last year.

Once he knew what his mission would be, he knew that the first thing he had to do was seek the advice of someone who knew more about raising ducks than he did.

Thus, early in the year, he’d found himself spending a great deal of time visiting one particular place...

To the northwest of the capital was a place called Red Plum Village. It was a haven for those who had left their homes and families in hope of becoming wayfarers. Wayfarers: usually that word evoked images of monks undergoing harsh training, but here things were a little different. Many here seemed to sincerely believe that their practice could make them true immortals.

Raising animals was one facet of their practice. When Basen had first heard of it, he’d doubted his ears. “I thought monks and nuns were all vegetarians,” he said.

“Immortals are long-lived unto endless life. A person can’t live on vegetables alone” was the prompt and nonchalant answer. The place was run by an old man, as Basen had heard, and if you ignored the fact that his clothes were dirty and covered in feathers, you could see that in fact he had healthy skin and stood very straight. His life might or might not prove to be endless, but he was clearly experienced in how to be long-lived.

The old Basen might have argued the point, but he liked to think he had learned a thing or two over the past several years. He decided to consider the old man to be in the same category as that eccentric apothecary and left it at that.

It turned out he had the right idea. Training wayfarers was a pretense for Red Plum Village; in reality, it was a group of researchers. Much of their practice contravened the precepts normally observed by monks and nuns, but the research was so valuable that everyone above them seemed to turn a blind eye.

“Ducks can lay up to 150 eggs a year. They’re omnivores, so they’ll eat anything, and they can start laying eggs as early as six months after hatching. They’re not so dissimilar to chickens, but if you intend to feed them grasshoppers, you’d be better off with ducks, I think—they’re physically larger. If you feed them one single type of food from infancy, they’ll come to eat that food exclusively, but that carries the risk of adversely impacting their growth, so I don’t recommend it. The only possible problem with ducks is that they don’t incubate their eggs as readily as chickens do, so...”

Basen wondered why people researching a particular field were always such windbags. Even that apothecary, Maomao, could be quite the talker when she warmed to her subject, and the bureaucrat Lahan was the same way.

Red Plum Village sprawled across a substantial area, much of which was devoted to agricultural fields. None of the “wayfarers” here wore the attire of religionists; they were all dressed to work outdoors. Their breath fogged as they worked in the fields.

“...and so as you can see, I’m terribly busy with my research, so I’m afraid I can’t entertain your request,” the old man said, finally winding down to the end of his speech.

“I’m sorry. I don’t quite follow,” Basen said.

“I’m saying that 
I
 cannot teach you, but my disciple, whom I currently entrust with the work, can. You’ll find her in that shed. Farewell.”

“H-Hey, wait!”

The old man scampered away with a quickness that belied his age. Left with no choice, Basen went toward the shed, which was periodically emitting steam. “Excuse me?” he said. “I’d like to learn about duck-keeping...” The door barely seemed to be hanging on, and when he opened it, fetid air hit him in the face.

“Y-Yes, of course. 
Laoshi
 told me,” came a nervous voice. Basen could see a small figure in the haze.

“I-It’s you!” Basen exclaimed. The small figure was a young, plainly dressed woman. The fabric of her outfit wasn’t even dyed, let alone embroidered, and her hair, held back with a simple piece of string, had no hair sticks or ornaments. Yet, even without a spot of rouge or whitening powder, she looked so much more full of life than she had the last time he had seen her. “Consort Lishu?”

“I... I’m not a consort anymore, M-Master Basen.”

Standing before him was an ephemeral princess. A member of the U clan, who had twice entered the rear palace as consort of an emperor.

“What are you doing here?” Basen asked. He immediately wished he could have said something more thoughtful. His sister Maamei would have given him a piece of her mind if she knew.

Lishu had once been an upper consort, but she had been banished from the rear palace. True, she had been manipulated by the woman people called the White Lady, but that didn’t change the fact that she had caused quite a commotion at court. Lishu had been obliged to retire from the world.

No one had told Basen so much as where she had gone or what she was doing; the Emperor said only that if he wished to see her, he should focus on doing great deeds. At a loss, Basen had recently made donations in cash and kind to several temples in hopes of making himself feel a little better—they hadn’t even told him which temple she might have been hiding at.

He was so flabbergasted by this unexpected reunion that he could hardly think.

“W-Well, as you know, I was banished from the rear palace. I couldn’t go back to my family, or to my last temple. His Majesty intervened on my behalf so that I could come here to Red Plum Village,” she said.

“Yes, but... Of all the places...”

Lishu’s outfit was filthy in spots, smeared not just with mud but animal dung. Worst of all, there was no one in this shed but Basen and Lishu, and Basen agonized over whether it was appropriate for him to be alone with a young lady.