“Ducks can lay up to 150 eggs a year. They’re omnivores, so they’ll eat anything, and they can start laying eggs as early as six months after hatching. They’re not so dissimilar to chickens, but if you intend to feed them grasshoppers, you’d be better off with ducks, I think—they’re physically larger. If you feed them one single type of food from infancy, they’ll come to eat that food exclusively, but that carries the risk of adversely impacting their growth, so I don’t recommend it. The only possible problem with ducks is that they don’t incubate their eggs as readily as chickens do, so...”

“...and so as you can see, I’m terribly busy with my research, so I’m afraid I can’t entertain your request,” the old man said, finally winding down to the end of his speech.

“I’m sorry. I don’t quite follow,” Basen said.

“I’m saying that 
I
 cannot teach you, but my disciple, whom I currently entrust with the work, can. You’ll find her in that shed. Farewell.”

The old man scampered away with a quickness that belied his age. Left with no choice, Basen went toward the shed, which was periodically emitting steam. “Excuse me?” he said. “I’d like to learn about duck-keeping...” The door barely seemed to be hanging on, and when he opened it, fetid air hit him in the face.

“Y-Yes, of course. 
Laoshi
 told me,” came a nervous voice. Basen could see a small figure in the haze.

“I-It’s you!” Basen exclaimed. The small figure was a young, plainly dressed woman. The fabric of her outfit wasn’t even dyed, let alone embroidered, and her hair, held back with a simple piece of string, had no hair sticks or ornaments. Yet, even without a spot of rouge or whitening powder, she looked so much more full of life than she had the last time he had seen her. “Consort Lishu?”

“I... I’m not a consort anymore, M-Master Basen.”

Standing before him was an ephemeral princess. A member of the U clan, who had twice entered the rear palace as consort of an emperor.

“What are you doing here?” Basen asked. He immediately wished he could have said something more thoughtful. His sister Maamei would have given him a piece of her mind if she knew.

Lishu had once been an upper consort, but she had been banished from the rear palace. True, she had been manipulated by the woman people called the White Lady, but that didn’t change the fact that she had caused quite a commotion at court. Lishu had been obliged to retire from the world.

No one had told Basen so much as where she had gone or what she was doing; the Emperor said only that if he wished to see her, he should focus on doing great deeds. At a loss, Basen had recently made donations in cash and kind to several temples in hopes of making himself feel a little better—they hadn’t even told him which temple she might have been hiding at.

He was so flabbergasted by this unexpected reunion that he could hardly think.

“W-Well, as you know, I was banished from the rear palace. I couldn’t go back to my family, or to my last temple. His Majesty intervened on my behalf so that I could come here to Red Plum Village,” she said.

“Yes, but... Of all the places...”

Lishu’s outfit was filthy in spots, smeared not just with mud but animal dung. Worst of all, there was no one in this shed but Basen and Lishu, and Basen agonized over whether it was appropriate for him to be alone with a young lady.