“Hoh!” Tianyu said, looking from the tree to the building and back. This was the same tree Chue had been dangling from last night. There were still a bunch of leaves under it, suggesting the groundskeeper hadn’t cleaned up yet.

“Nah. What about you, Niangniang?” That was what he always called her. She’d given up trying to correct him, but these days even the other doctors were starting to do it. It was very frustrating.

“A couple of things.” First she looked at the tree. “This tree isn’t quite like the others I’ve seen growing in the western capital. It’s bigger and taller.”

“Doesn’t it make you curious? Different kinds of plants means different possible medicines you can make from them! We need to get a little closer to be certain what we’re dealing with, though.”

That Tianyu—if he wasn’t specifically interested in something, you couldn’t get him to lift a finger for it. He was no fun, Maomao concluded, giving him a sour look.

“What’s the other thing?” Tianyu asked.

“The other thing is that the feitouman reported inside the house seems to take the form of either a mask or a face. Outside, however, people claim to see a head.”

“I’m sorry, how are a head and a face different? What did 
you
 see, anyway, Niangniang?”

“A mask, I’d say. I spotted it just as it disappeared around the corner of that hallway toward this courtyard.” She pointed to the place.

“A mask... So it didn’t look like a head to you?”

“No, definitely a mask or a face. But some of the reports describe it as a head.” The discrepancy nettled Maomao.

“A head is basically the three-dimensional version of a mask, right?” Tianyu said. He was clever, and he’d immediately put his finger on something key.

“I’m not completely sure we can put it that way, but I couldn’t help wondering. I was thinking I’d investigate that tree.”

“Go right ahead. Need anything from me?” The dull scissors had finally decided to sharpen up.

“If you’d be so kind, then.” Maomao took a handkerchief from the folds of her robe and wrapped it around a rock she found on the ground. “Toss this into the branches for me.”

“Yeah, sure. You make it sound so easy.” Despite his grumbling, Tianyu tossed the rock beautifully, catching the cloth on a branch. It wasn’t exactly proper etiquette for a court lady to be climbing a tree. A handkerchief that had been blown away would provide a convenient excuse.

Maomao trotted up to the trunk of the tree. The plant was a broad-leaved thing almost six meters tall.

“Osmanthus,” she observed. A tree that produced a profusion of small, strong-smelling blossoms that could be used for making osmanthus wine or floral tea.

Maomao grabbed onto the trunk and had just gotten off the ground when she exclaimed, “Yuck!” Her hand was covered in half-dried bird doo-doo. The stuff was all over the tree.

“Keep it to yourself, please,” said Maomao. She studied the gunk on her hand, then gave it a vigorous sniff.

“Are you, uh, smelling that?” Tianyu asked, unable to ignore what he was seeing.

Maomao, however, just stared at the ground, then poked something she saw there with a stick.

“Hey, what are you up to?” Tianyu asked, more confused than ever.

Maomao picked up two small twigs and held them like chopsticks.

“Huh? You’re picking it up? You’re...picking something out of poop, using chopsticks.” He backed up a step, giving her a profoundly suspicious look.

Maomao wasn’t exactly thrilled to be doing this, but there was a lot you could learn from animal dung. In addition to the not-quite-dry bird droppings, the space under the tree was home to something that looked like hairballs. They came from specific kinds of birds—some of them would spit up things they couldn’t digest.

“This bird appears to eat mainly bugs,” Maomao said, dissecting the hairball with a stick. Inside, she discovered insect wings and legs.

“Well, yeah. Birds usually do, right?”

“There’s some fur in here too. Probably from a mouse or something.” She also spotted some bones alongside the fur and insect bits.

“So it eats mice? Probably from a hawk or some other bird of prey, then.”

Bugs were one thing, but if this bird was eating mice, then it had to be of a certain size.