“Where’s Mister Soljer?” she asked, looking around, her face bloodless. Apparently the military man standing guard at the door didn’t count.

Maomao quickly realized what she meant. “If you’re looking for Master Lihaku, he’s off duty,” she said. This girl must be the servant Lihaku had mentioned. She looked to be about ten years old.

“O-Oh...” The girl looked disappointed and refused to meet Maomao’s eyes.

Maomao glanced at Tianyu and the quack. “Would you like me to call for him?” she asked.

“You’d bother an off-duty soldier?” Tianyu burst out. He was annoying, but right. It wouldn’t be pretty if their guard was sleep-deprived when something happened—but Lihaku had told them to wake him up if there was any need.

Lihaku was awake, and must have heard the noisy conversation, because he came right out of his room.

“Hey there!” he said.

“Mister Soljer!” The girl went right over to him. “We saw it again!”

“Oh you did? What did you see?”

“A head! A woman’s head!”

Somehow, everything kept coming back to this ghost story.

“Where did you see it?” Lihaku asked.

“Outside! The groundskeeper, he could barely stand up, he was so scared!”

“All right, I hear you. Where’s the groundskeeper now?”

“He’s out working in the garden. But he’s white as a sheet!”

“Good to know. Here, here’s some candy for you.”

“Yippee!” The girl skipped out of the medical office.

Maomao looked at Lihaku. “May I ask you something, Master Lihaku?”

“Yeah? What’s that?”

“You’re not doing this out of personal curiosity, are you? This is an official investigation.”

“I knew you were a sharp one.”

Lihaku didn’t make any effort to hide it. He believed there was a chance this “flying head” was really someone who might mean harm. If he was investigating, moreover, it was presumably on someone else’s orders.

“That Tianyu, he’s a heap of trouble,” Lihaku muttered to Maomao. It was rare for the sunny, cheerful soldier to complain like that.

The quack was humming a tune as he washed the dishes. Tianyu had finished his breakfast and was off brushing his teeth—an upper physician had ordered that the medical staff should not have rotting teeth; it wouldn’t look good. That physician being, not incidentally, Dr. Liu.

Sounds like Lihaku and Tianyu don’t get along.
 Maomao had sort of suspected as much.

“The two of you don’t click?” she asked.

“I guess. Tianyu and I...we’re just cut from different cloth, maybe. It’s not like we’re going to get into a fight, but I’m not sure how to talk to him. You know what I mean?”

Maomao did, indeed, know what he meant. Usually one could solve those problems by keeping one’s distance from the person in question, but that wasn’t an option here.

“You’re saying it wouldn’t normally be a problem, but we’re in such close quarters here that it makes things hard. And it might not be so bad if this was someone with whom you could settle things with a fight, but Tianyu is obviously not that kind of person. Am I right?”

“I 
knew
 you were a sharp one! It’s not that I can’t handle him, but...I don’t know what’s at his core. It’s like I can see the branches, but not the trunk.”

Lihaku seemed to have Tianyu pinned down by sheer instinct.

“Whereas you, young lady, there’s a logic to how you behave. Whatever you do, you can bet there’s either poison or drugs at the bottom of it.”

“You could at least say ‘drugs or poison,’ please,” Maomao replied. “As far as Tianyu is concerned, you’re right that his personality has a few wrinkles, but I don’t think it’s anything to be too concerned about.” He had managed to become a physician, after all, and shorthanded or not, they would never have brought him to the western capital if they hadn’t thoroughly investigated his background.

“Sure, I understand. Sorry. I’m a soldier—I guess I’m always thinking in terms of battle.”

“Battle? How do you mean?”

“The only thing I know for sure is that I could never trust him to have my back.”

Sheer instinct. There was nothing Maomao could say to that.

She decided to put the topic of Tianyu aside. “In any case, may I ask: Did the orders to investigate the feitouman come from the Moon Prince?”

And now there’s a floating head involved.