“Yeah, that’s right. Master Jinshi told me to.”

There was a name Maomao didn’t hear much from other people these days. Wish he’d said something to me. Then again, Maomao did prefer to do things with the absolute minimum of conversation.

“Sorry, should I have told you? I know you—if something gets your interest, you work on it so hard you forget to eat or sleep. And my orders include not letting you run yourself into the ground.”

Maomao had thought she was keeping her monologue internal but apparently the words had come out of her mouth, and now Lihaku was apologizing on Jinshi’s behalf.

Not let me run myself into the ground, huh?

In that case, she could wish that he wouldn’t summon her to his room. For someone who never stopped piling fresh demands on her, Jinshi sometimes tried to be considerate in the strangest ways.

He was always coming to her with problems that seemed right out of a ghost story.

“It’s strange, though,” Lihaku said.

“What’s strange?” Maomao asked. “Other than the flying head, I mean.”

“That’s exactly it. When I first heard the story, people talked about a floating mask. But over the last twenty days or so, a lot of people seem to be reporting a flying head.”

“Interesting point. What I saw looked more like a mask than a head.” She’d only glimpsed it, so she couldn’t be sure, but that was her initial impression.

“This is that thing we were talking about at breakfast? Hard to ignore, huh?”

Maomao spun at the voice behind them. It was Tianyu, back from brushing his teeth. He was grinning.

Lihaku didn’t look very surprised—he seemed to have guessed Tianyu was there. “Eavesdropping is bad manners, you know,” he said.

“Eavesdropping? Me? No, no. I was just curious how long the two of you would keep chattering together. An unmarried man and woman!”

“Believe us, it’s nothing like that!” Maomao and Lihaku replied in unison.

“Believe me, I don’t think it is.”

How much had Tianyu heard?

“So, that flying head. Some story, huh? Whaddaya say? Wanna let me in on it?”

“Absolutely not,” Maomao shot back.

Tianyu’s face fell. “Aw, why not?”

“Because you’ll tell.”

“I will not.”

“Because you’ll get bored in the middle of it and give up.”

“That I might do.”

Lihaku stayed quiet, letting Maomao handle Tianyu. He really 
didn’t
 like dealing with the guy.

“I can be useful!” Tianyu said. “If you don’t think I can be, or if you think I’m a risk or whatever, it’s just because you don’t know how to use me. Do you also refuse to use scissors because you could cut yourself with them?”

Maomao looked at Lihaku. He looked back as if to say it was up to her.

After a long moment, Maomao said, “Just don’t get in our way.”

“Yeah!” There was the faintest gleam in Tianyu’s eyes.

Maomao and Tianyu started by going out into the courtyard where Maomao had seen the feitouman the night before.

“So! What happens now?” Tianyu asked, although he sounded like he didn’t much care.

“What happens now is you show us just how useful you can be, Mister Scissors,” Maomao said, looking around the courtyard. She’d told Lihaku to get some sleep since he’d been on duty the previous night, but had convinced him to leave his map of the mansion with her.

Meanwhile, they’d told the quack they were just going to run a little errand, so their investigation had to be quick.

“You have to tell scissors which paper you want them to cut. Although you 
can 
stab any old thing from behind with them.”

Maomao didn’t respond to that. It sounded like Tianyu was miffed that she and Lihaku didn’t trust him.

He is who he is, though.
 His commitment to ethics seemed, well, less than enthusiastic.

“How about we start by looking around all the areas the spirit is supposed to have appeared?” Maomao suggested.

“Yeah, sure.”

The courtyard was where the mysterious mask was most often sighted. “Most of the reports place it by that tree or on top of that building,” Maomao said, looking at her blueprints. For an “annex,” this place was pretty big.

“Anything catch your eye?” Maomao asked.

“Yeah? So what?”

“Okay. And that has 
what
 to do with why we’re here?”

“Gross,” Tianyu offered.