“Our buddy Jinshi, he really thought on his feet I guess, because he said not to worry, because he’d sent you somewhere there’s no plague. Biggest lie I ever heard!”

“When I was literally on the front lines...” Granted, Maomao had volunteered for it, but the lie was convenient, no question.

“The old fart organized a grasshopper extermination squad. He helped control the chaos in the city too.”

Maomao didn’t respond immediately. It actually sounded like things were more or less under control in the western capital. It was the other farming villages that worried her.

“If he hasn’t sent any letters, that’s probably good news, right?” Chue said.

“I don’t know. The last thing he sent sounded pretty bad, and now here we are with grasshoppers everywhere...”

As ordinary farmers went, he was quite distinguished, but he’d been pressed into service on this expedition, then sent into the teeth of the oncoming swarm.

Thank you, Lahan’s Brother... Maomao looked at the ceiling of the tent. She tried to picture Lahan’s Brother’s smiling face, but then she realized she wasn’t sure she’d ever seen him smile. He was usually either angry, or at his wits’ end, or quipping at somebody.

I wonder if he’s even still alive. She knew he’d been sent with trustworthy bodyguards, so she wanted to believe he’d survived all this.

“You wouldn’t happen to know the extent of the damage, would you?” she asked. The swarm had come and gone; that couldn’t be changed now. The question was how they would respond.

“About eighty percent of the wheat harvest was in,” Chue informed her. “The unharvested wheat was destroyed, but it was a bumper crop this year, bigger than average. Subtract the wheat from the one house that burned down, and the harvest comes out to about seventy percent of a normal year.”

“Seventy percent?” Considering the scale of the destruction, that sounded almost miraculous to Maomao. Maybe Lahan’s Brother really was that good a teacher and guide. They couldn’t think exclusively in terms of wheat, though. “What about other damage?” she asked.

“Most of the straw was eaten, and so was most of the pasture grass for the animals. The potato fields have pretty much been reduced to stems, but we think they might grow back.”

Chue made it sound so simple, but she must have been uncomfortable with the gravity of the situation, because flowers and flags kept popping in and out of her hands. Lihaku watched her raptly, never seeming to tire of the display.

“Let’s be honest—the other farming villages are probably pretty much annihilated,” said Chue.

“Good old Jinshi keeps sending post-horses to the nearest village every time he gets a letter from Lahan’s Brother, but I’ll bet most places weren’t prepared as well as this one was,” Lihaku added.

“Good point. Things didn’t get 
too
 chaotic around here,” Chue said.

So this was “not too chaotic,” huh? Maomao had thought she was inured to a certain amount of pandemonium, but it seemed Chue was even more composed than she was.

And there was still the matter of the person who had done more than anyone on this occasion...

“Where’s Rikuson?”

“Outside, I think. Wanna see him?” Chue asked.

In the midst of the turmoil, Rikuson had remained completely calm. In fact, he had looked downright used to it. He’d done more than simply keep his wits and kill grasshoppers—he’d seemed to understand on a deep level how people in a panic would act. What he’d done, running from one house to another and talking to the villagers, might not have looked like much, but without it, it was possible that much more grain would have burned.

Even after Maomao’s stern warnings not to use fire, the villagers had still done so. Trapped in suffocating, lightless houses, with frenzied voices screaming outside, anyone would have been pushed to the edge. Maomao’s saw now how important it was to have a level voice come from outside.