Chapter 19: Scratches

Her vision came back, but it was hazy.

Huh? What was I doing, again?

Maomao sat up slowly; her body felt heavy.

“H’lo there! You awake?” said an upbeat voice. It was accompanied by a familiar face.

“M-Master Lihaku?”

It was the big, friendly mutt of a soldier. Maomao looked around, trying to make her brain work. She wasn’t in a room, but a tent. To one side, she could see Chue stewing something in a pot.

That was all well and good—but then she saw an insect at the edge of her vision. She jumped to her feet. “Grasshopper!” she cried, immediately crushing it underfoot. Having only just woken up, however, the motion nearly made her fall down.

“Whoa! Hey, young lady. Killing one grasshopper won’t make any difference, okay? And you’ve got to take it slow,” Lihaku said.

“He’s very right, Miss Maomao. Here, eat this.” Chue sat her back down on the bed and offered her a bowl of something. She took it and ate a bite. It was a rice pudding, faintly salty.

Once Maomao had some warm food in her, the memories started to come back. There was a swarm of grasshoppers, and then a hailstorm, and then...

“How long was I out?” she asked.

“One whole day,” Chue replied. “You took a good whack on the head from a big piece of hail. I was afraid it would be dangerous to move you, so we put you here in this tent.”

Maomao thought she had made the right choice. She also felt downright pathetic, falling unconscious right when they needed her most.

Sounds like I was in pretty bad shape.

Maomao was only human. No one would blame her if the unprecedented situation had pushed her over the edge. But it was still true that in succumbing she had made life harder for the others.

And to think, the 
taibon
 didn’t bother me.
 The locked room full of snakes and venomous insects in the Shi clan fortress had been no problem at all.

“There’s no need to feel down, Miss Maomao. You just got a little confused and took the bug-killing a bit too far. Your Cat-brand pesticide is on the strong side. Might poison the earth, you know. But it worked! We’ve thinned it down and now they’re using it to kill the rest of the bugs.”

“The rest of them?”

“The short version is, we’re on the other side of this. It helped a lot that the hail came and dropped the temperature. But some of those grasshoppers are hardy little stinkers, so they’re out there dealing with them.”

“I’m helping with that,” Lihaku chimed in, raising his hand. Why was he here? “A swarm of grasshoppers showed up in the western capital too. Not as many as here, but it’s been ugly. Our good buddy Jinshi is beside himself—he ordered me to go to the village you were at right away, little lady. I got here about half a day ago.”

“Meanwhile, my silly little brother went back to attend the Moon Prince. This has been your report on the situation!”

This was probably the most Jinshi could do. Basen, meanwhile, would presumably still be full of vim and vigor, even after a fast ride back.

“Boy, it was something!” Lihaku said. “Those guys in the western capital, it looked like they’d never seen an insect plague before. I mean, neither have I, right? But they warned us something was coming. They warned us over and over!”

Lihaku was, as his appearance suggested, stout of heart. He had been an excellent choice for this expedition.

“Oh, right!” he added. “The old fart was there too—he was all, ‘Maomaoooo! Where’s my Maomaaaoooo?!’ Boy, did he go wild! The poor old doctor was cowering in the medical office!”

“Ugh...” Maomao could imagine the freak strategist’s reaction all too well.

“Our buddy Jinshi, he really thought on his feet I guess, because he said not to worry, because he’d sent you somewhere there’s no plague. Biggest lie I ever heard!”

“When I was literally on the front lines...” Granted, Maomao had volunteered for it, but the lie was convenient, no question.

“The old fart organized a grasshopper extermination squad. He helped control the chaos in the city too.”

Maomao didn’t respond immediately. It actually sounded like things were more or less under control in the western capital. It was the other farming villages that worried her.

Speaking of which...

“Lahan’s Brother—is he okay?” she wondered aloud.

“Ohh, you mean Potato Guy?”

“If he hasn’t sent any letters, that’s probably good news, right?” Chue said.

“I don’t know. The last thing he sent sounded pretty bad, and now here we are with grasshoppers everywhere...”

As ordinary farmers went, he was quite distinguished, but he’d been pressed into service on this expedition, then sent into the teeth of the oncoming swarm.

Thank you, Lahan’s Brother... Maomao looked at the ceiling of the tent. She tried to picture Lahan’s Brother’s smiling face, but then she realized she wasn’t sure she’d ever seen him smile. He was usually either angry, or at his wits’ end, or quipping at somebody.

I wonder if he’s even still alive. She knew he’d been sent with trustworthy bodyguards, so she wanted to believe he’d survived all this.

“You wouldn’t happen to know the extent of the damage, would you?” she asked. The swarm had come and gone; that couldn’t be changed now. The question was how they would respond.

“About eighty percent of the wheat harvest was in,” Chue informed her. “The unharvested wheat was destroyed, but it was a bumper crop this year, bigger than average. Subtract the wheat from the one house that burned down, and the harvest comes out to about seventy percent of a normal year.”

“Seventy percent?” Considering the scale of the destruction, that sounded almost miraculous to Maomao. Maybe Lahan’s Brother really was that good a teacher and guide. They couldn’t think exclusively in terms of wheat, though. “What about other damage?” she asked.

“Most of the straw was eaten, and so was most of the pasture grass for the animals. The potato fields have pretty much been reduced to stems, but we think they might grow back.”

Chue made it sound so simple, but she must have been uncomfortable with the gravity of the situation, because flowers and flags kept popping in and out of her hands. Lihaku watched her raptly, never seeming to tire of the display.

“Let’s be honest—the other farming villages are probably pretty much annihilated,” said Chue.

“Good old Jinshi keeps sending post-horses to the nearest village every time he gets a letter from Lahan’s Brother, but I’ll bet most places weren’t prepared as well as this one was,” Lihaku added.

“Good point. Things didn’t get 
too
 chaotic around here,” Chue said.

So this was “not too chaotic,” huh? Maomao had thought she was inured to a certain amount of pandemonium, but it seemed Chue was even more composed than she was.

And there was still the matter of the person who had done more than anyone on this occasion...

“Where’s Rikuson?”

“Outside, I think. Wanna see him?” Chue asked.

In the midst of the turmoil, Rikuson had remained completely calm. In fact, he had looked downright used to it. He’d done more than simply keep his wits and kill grasshoppers—he’d seemed to understand on a deep level how people in a panic would act. What he’d done, running from one house to another and talking to the villagers, might not have looked like much, but without it, it was possible that much more grain would have burned.

Even after Maomao’s stern warnings not to use fire, the villagers had still done so. Trapped in suffocating, lightless houses, with frenzied voices screaming outside, anyone would have been pushed to the edge. Maomao’s saw now how important it was to have a level voice come from outside.