“I thought we might discuss the western capital—if briefly.”

Gyokuyou raised a hand, and Hongniang bustled the prince and princess out the door. Only the minimum of staff were left in the room.

Gyoku-ou was Gyokuyou’s older brother, and he had been murdered. True, they were only half-siblings, but Gyokuyou must have had complicated feelings.

“I’ve heard the story. I’m told that my brother’s eldest son will succeed him.”

Shikyou was Gyoku-ou’s oldest son, making him a nephew to Gyokuyou, albeit one older than her.

“He can be a soft touch at times, but he’ll be all right.”

“Were you close?”

“After my father told me I was to enter the rear palace, I spent some time at the main house being educated for the part. He may look just like Gyoku-ou, but he’s completely different. Once he stands at the top, I think the foundation will naturally form beneath him.”

Empress Gyokuyou’s words were as good as saying that Gyoku-ou had not been fit to lead.

“What have you heard about the relationship between me and my brother Gyoku-ou?”

Jinshi paused. “That it was not a very good one.”

“Mm. Well, for the record, I want you to know that I had no hand in this.” She was quite firm.

“Nor I, ma’am,” said Jinshi. They naturally fell into the way they had talked in the rear palace: She spoke casually, he politely. Perhaps it was because the ladies and guards left in the room were all holdovers from those days.

“I suppose not. What is the western capital to the Imperial younger brother, anyway? A rural outpost. Let’s be frank—a modest country town. Why should he bother himself with killing its leader?”

“And yet, there have been no end of rumors that I did just that.”

“Hee hee hee! How can you convince these rumormongers that no one has less interest in power than you?” Gyokuyou laughed, but her words contained some sarcasm directed at Jinshi as well. She was one of the very few who knew of the peony brand that marked his flesh.

“Indeed. As I have said, Empress Gyokuyou, your enemy I shall never be,” Jinshi said, deliberately using the same words he had spoken when he’d branded his own flank.

“And may I trust that claim?”

“You may.”

“My enemy you may not be, Moon Prince, but I’m not so sure about others around us.”

“I’m aware, milady.”

Gyokuyou was Li’s Empress, the Emperor’s only official wife. Yet there were more than a few people who looked askance at her red hair and green eyes, so unlike those of the average Linese. And the prince had inherited his mother’s traits.

Members of Li’s Imperial family had commonly married close relatives, and there were those among the Emperor’s advisers who felt he should have married not Gyokuyou, but Consort Lihua, who hailed from a branch of the Imperial line. Lihua herself, though, was content to do as the Emperor wished. So long as Empress Gyokuyou and her family did not turn to violence, she would never dream of a coup d’état.

And so it was to Jinshi that those seeking another candidate for the throne turned. Indeed, for the more than ten years before His Majesty had borne a son, Jinshi had been the heir apparent. In particular, one suspected the clan of Anshi, the Empress Dowager and Jinshi’s mother, had a special interest in seeing him become the next emperor.

“I have no desire to sit where none may stand beside me,” Jinshi affirmed. No one was allowed to sit beside the emperor on his throne, not even the empress—who was still his subject, not his equal.

“No, indeed.” A slight smile crossed Gyokuyou’s face. Before Jinshi could discern what it might mean, she rose from her chair and went over to the window. She opened it and looked outside.

Jinshi turned and looked too. In the courtyard garden, a girl with brightly colored hair was holding what appeared to be an imitation tea ceremony.

“My older brother’s daughter—that would make her my niece,” Gyokuyou said. “She told me that she wishes to enter my service as a lady-in-waiting rather than go into the rear palace, so I’m having her train as an apprentice, as you see.”

Empress Gyokuyou had always known how to wield both iron and silk. In the rear palace, the other consorts had scorned her because her homeland was so distant, but Gyokuyou had continued to build up the people around her. In less generous terms, one might say she was adept at beguiling other women. That strength was no small part of why Jinshi had recommended her for promotion to High Consort when he’d been a “eunuch.”

“If she’s not going to enter the rear palace, she could indeed become your consort, Moon Prince... Hee hee! Don’t let her see your face, or she might have a change of heart and decide she prefers the Imperial younger brother.”

“You jest, milady.”

Though he brushed off her comment, Jinshi had attracted plenty of folks—men and women, young and old alike—in his time, so he was genuinely sweating.

“As you have made your resolution, Moon Prince, so I shall make mine.”

“I’ve done many things for which I think I must beg your forgiveness.”

“Beg forgiveness? Not from me, you mustn’t,” she said, raising her voice slightly. “Don’t forget, there’s another whom you’ve troubled far more than me.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

It was all Jinshi could say.

Did she mean Maomao, or His Majesty? Or both?

They were the only others who had been present when he had done what he had done.

When Jinshi got back to his own residence, Suiren was cleaning—not just tidying up, but going over the place from top to bottom.

“I appreciate your enthusiasm, Suiren, but aren’t you tired from traveling? You can relax.”

Moreover, his home looked like it had been kept quite neat in his absence. To clean it still further—wasn’t that the sort of thing a “demon mother-in-law,” as the world called them, would do?

“Relax? Don’t be silly, young master.”

“Don’t call me that.”

“It’s the least you deserve to be called, soft as you are! Look at this—I gave the place the slightest once-over, and see how much I found!” She cheerfully displayed some suspicious charms, several dolls, and a ball made of human hair, among other things. Jinshi was lost for words. “You may forget, young master, but you never know what they’ll do when you take your eyes off them for a minute—young ladies in love, I mean!”

He 
had
 begun to forget, after a year in the western capital—this had been an everyday thing for Jinshi.

“Whoa, whoa, whoa.”

“I also found a pair of underpants with human hair sewn into them—a real classic. You want to wear them?”

“Throw them out!”

“As you command.” Suiren pitched the underwear into the trash bin without a hint of mercy or remorse.

The charms and dolls weren’t necessarily all for love—some might have been intended purely to curse Jinshi. He had no intention of following up on each of the tchotchkes individually, though, nor of losing sleep over anyone so cowardly that they could only attack him in this most indirect of ways.

Then again, it was only because Jinshi was so thoroughly convinced that spells and curses were just superstition that he could act that way. Now, whose influence could that have been?

“Is Maamei here?” Jinshi asked.

“Yes, she is. I have her cleaning one of the other rooms.”

Maamei was a formidable woman in her own right, but apparently even she couldn’t best Suiren.

Jinshi found her in the living room, throwing an eerie-looking doll in the trash just as Suiren had been doing.

“It’s been quite a while, Moon Prince. Don’t worry—I’ll make sure the refuse is burned later.”

Maamei looked like her mother Taomei, whom Jinshi had seen so much of in the western capital, only half as old. Her father was Gaoshun, but his contribution was hard to spot.

“Pardon my abruptness, but could you tell me what’s been happening in the last year?” Jinshi asked.

“Of course,” she replied. “Let me begin with things that affect you personally, Moon Prince.”

Maamei didn’t stop cleaning as she spoke. She said that Gyoku-ou’s daughter would soon become Empress Gyokuyou’s lady-in-waiting, as Jinshi had already heard. Moreover, people were beginning to urge that something be done about a consort for Jinshi himself. To top it all off, the faction that supported Lihua’s son for the heirship could be seen beginning to act, trying to establish their chosen candidate.

“And then there’s...” Maamei said, but then she stopped.

“Well, it’s merely a rumor...”

“Tell me anyway.” Jinshi sat in a chair and sipped some tea Suiren had brought—when had she done that?

“The Imperial family currently suffers from a dearth of male heirs. His Majesty has only his two infant sons, and you are unmarried. So there are those who...let us say they seek to make contact with this male-challenged royal family.”

“I suppose that’s not so surprising. I do recall the sovereign before last had a much younger half-brother.”

That would make him the former emperor’s uncle. Jinshi had heard that he’d fled his home while the empress regnant had wielded power, lest he incur her wrath.

“That’s right. And he has a son.”

A son from the male line—meaning he could make a claim on the throne.

“You think he’s plotting treachery?” Jinshi asked.

“No; his attitude remains as it always has been—he has no interest in politics. However, the rumor is that there’s another male member of the Imperial line.”

“Another male?” Jinshi cocked his head. “Of what generation?”

“Three generations back, perhaps. There was someone who was a member of the Imperial family, but ran afoul of the reigning emperor.”

“Hm?”

“He was stripped of his imperial status and executed, but before that, he had a child with a commoner woman. Or so the story goes.”

By Li’s laws, a child born to one with imperial status could be accorded imperial status. Even if his mother was a commoner, if the child had proof of imperial paternity, they could be granted a place in the succession. Most such claimants turned out to be pretenders—and even those who weren’t, one suspected, largely found themselves ignored based on whatever was most convenient for the court’s advisors.

“That story would hardly pass for a fairy tale,” said Jinshi.

“I agree, sir—it’s drivel. But as the tale is out and about, I thought I should tell you.”

This was what passed for a joke with Maamei. Such stories abounded. There was even a courtesan who used the royal character Ka in her name on the claim that she was an illegitimate child of an imperial sire. It seemed ridiculous—but then, there was always the case of Maomao herself, so the possibility couldn’t be dismissed entirely.

“I have more to tell. What would you like to do?” Maamei asked.

“I’m getting hungry. Could I eat while I listen?”

“Certainly, sir.”

Maamei had found another item in the meantime, a cushion embroidered with hair. She threw it in the trash. Jinshi was starting to think it would be quicker just to get a new palace, but then he pictured Maomao chastising him for the waste of money, and decided to keep the suggestion to himself.