What’s he doing living with two eligible young ladies?!

Early autumn, clear skies

Lahan might have tricked me into coming to the western capital, but if nothing else, I have a front row seat to just how obnoxious politics can be. From what I can tell, the Moon Prince doesn’t make a big deal of going about his work, but he really gets things done. He’s trying to nip problems in the bud—but in terms of worldly fame, it’s much easier for people to celebrate those who solve problems after they start instead of before. Some guys really know how to deal with things, huh?

Speaking of dealing with things, why am I in charge of these goats and this duck? Then again, if I don’t protect them, Miss Chue is going to try to eat them. People are starving everywhere...

Fresh cool, clear skies

It really doesn’t rain in the western capital. Trying to water things has been a huge headache. The rich folk around here have ponds as a sign of their ridiculous wealth, but they’re probably made using underground water. At least that makes it easier to grow bean sprouts.

We’ve started fields near the western capital, but irrigation is proving to be the biggest challenge. Bringing up water from underground isn’t realistic. It would be great if we could get water from a river, but the scale of the project would be untenable. Maybe you just can’t have farm fields if there isn’t a body of water nearby.

As one learns if one is going in and out of the estate, the mood in town is getting worse and worse. Stomachs are empty and tempers are high, while all-out struggles for food are hardly unusual.

Some people are claiming the insects were some kind of curse from another country. It’s just a natural disaster! How ridiculous can you be?

I really don’t like the way things are looking out there.

Cool breeze, clear skies

It was bound to happen eventually, and it finally has.

A mob has closed in on the mansion where the Moon Prince is staying. What’s going to happen here? I don’t know.

I really don’t know. 

Autumn cool, clear skies

Now things make even less sense to me.

Gyoku-ou, the leader of the western capital, is dead.

What the heck is going on?

Autumn colors, clear skies

I’m just going to stop thinking about politics. It doesn’t make any sense to me. I always thought of myself as reasonably smart, but I’m not made for this. I think I would die of an upset stomach. If Lahan were here, I’m sure he’d just roll with it and keep cranking out work. I’ll never beat him in that regard.

With Gyoku-ou dead, things seem to have turned very serious. The mansion’s servants can hardly bring themselves to do their jobs. But none of that has any bearing on field work. I’ve got to get out there again today and keep breaking ground.

Autumn clear, clear skies

The Moon Prince is relocating from the annex. It sounds like Maomao and the friendly old doctor are going with him, but I’d like to stay here for a while. This garden is finally hitting its stride. The groundskeeper may have it out for me, but we’re closer to a water source here, and that makes growing easier.

Autumn beauty, clear skies

There’s a beautiful greenhouse at the main house, where we’re moving. I hear they used to grow cucumbers there, but they’ve already been cruelly uprooted.

Maomao could barely contain herself as she planted seeds for medicinal herbs, but the glare that the greenhouse’s minder was giving her—well! If looks could kill.

I’m out of the loop on whatever happened, but even I could figure it out at a glance.

Colorful leaves, clear skies

I’ve turned the annex’s entire garden into fields.

Next I’m starting on the ones at the main house. I’m not going about things like Maomao, though. I made sure to get permission from Miss Chue. Someone from the Gyoku clan, a guy named Hulan, gave his approval, too, so I should be in the clear.

The friendly old physician helps me out with farmwork when he has time to kill, but someone hurt his leg. Some firecracker of the Gyoku family gave it a whack—I think his name was Gyokujun. He sure liked to boss the servants around. Someone better set him straight while he can still change his ways, or who knows what will become of him?

The thought occurs to me: I could have been like him, if my mother and grandfather had had more influence on me. If Uncle Lakan hadn’t snatched the family headship, I might have grown up as a selfish whelp of the La family.

Now instead of the physician, his bodyguard Lihaku is helping me. If we can hurry to get this field ready and lay down some shell ash, we might be able to plant some wheat, so we’re working as hard as we can.

A gardener keeps giving me dirty looks, but I got permission. I’m not doing anything wrong.

Autumn chill, clear skies

I got a letter from my father asking if I’ve planted potatoes yet. Shut up! Yes, I’ve planted them. Lahan doesn’t know what Dad is really like. I wonder if he’s dealing with being in charge all right.

I hope Mom and Grandpa are doing well. They like to lord it over people, but they can be surprisingly fragile. I guess it goes to show what comes of having too much pride. I wonder if Grandpa might have been a bit more upstanding if he hadn’t been in the shade of a younger brother as thoroughly exceptional as my great-uncle Luomen.

As I was writing my reply, I saw Gyokujun bullying his cousin, a younger girl named Xiaohong. I went over to them and he scurried off someplace. Hmph! If he can’t stand his ground, he should have left her alone to begin with.

Hey, goat! That’s precious paper! Expensive stuff that the physician gave me. Don’t eat it!

Late autumn, clear skies

Today I was working on the fields at the main house. I tried planting different seed stock in each area, all kinds of wheat. I’m curious how different the yields will be between the short wheat and the regular stuff given the same environment. But it’s going to take six months or so to find out... Wait, how long do I plan to be here?! When do I get to go home?

With Lihaku and Hulan helping me, work went quickly. Hulan doesn’t behave like the pampered son of a good household. He’s more like an apprentice, trying out all kinds of different jobs. Well, it’s certainly helpful for me. Any big brother with a younger sibling like him would be very happy.

I went to the medical office to grab a quick break, since I knew the friendly old physician would serve me tea. Recently, Uncle Lakan has been at a lot of our little tea parties. I assume he’s there to see Maomao, but she can sense his presence and makes herself scarce. The old doctor seems a lot like Luomen somehow—he really seems to know how to handle my uncle. It really brings home how everyone has some special skill or redeeming quality.

I decided to tell him my name was Lahan’s Brother.

Falling leaves, clear skies

There was some kind of commotion at the main house, but I’m busy. Harvesting my soybeans takes priority.

Autumn frost, clear skies

Early winter, cloudy skies