When I think about that, scurrying from village to village teaching farming methods actually seems rather simple.

Ahh! When this journey is over, I’m going to find me a wife—a lovely wife who’s not scary and is eccentricity-free.

I stay for only a short time in any given village. I must teach them what they need to know in the space of just a few days. I tried using some of my precious supply of paper to give written instructions, but it’s proven difficult. Literacy is low in the villages, so no one can read what I write.

I suppose I need to boil it down and teach them in the simplest possible terms, but without missing anything crucial. That’s what I’ve been trying to do.

Maybe I’m becoming a better teacher, because if nothing else people have stopped looking at me like an intruder and started treating me like a welcome guest. One time one of the village girls brought me tea. She was cute, but I’m sure a girl like that already has a husband, or at least a man to whom she’s pledged her future—I know these things. I can’t go getting the wrong idea. Nobody likes men who think every slight show of decency means a woman is in love with them.

It’s been interesting getting to know the foodways of this distant land. They seem to use bean sprouts to make up for what they lack in nutrients. I got some of the beans they use for this purpose, and I’ll try doing the same thing myself when I get back to the western capital.

Fresh leaves, clear skies

I used a pigeon to get in touch with the Moon Prince. Very convenient—but also very inconvenient, considering they can only go one way. I need a pigeon resupply from the western capital before I run out of birds.

I’ve come quite a ways from the western capital now. Just a little farther, and it will be time to double back. I found a most interesting kind of wheat in this village. I noticed that one field in particular had yielded a remarkably large amount, and when I looked into it, I saw that the stalks were lower than most, so that fewer of them were knocked over. That seems to be why they yielded more than average. Maybe it’s sheer coincidence that lower-growing wheat happened to proliferate here. I took seeds and some ears as an intriguing sample.

Deep green, cloudy skies

All right, I’m finally halfway there. When this is over, I’m going to get a wife, believe me.

There’s something strange about the weather, though. It seems very gloomy, even though it’s not the rainy season. When I look up at the sky, I can see a dark cloud on the horizon, and hear a strange sound. The cloud seems to be coming closer. When I really squint, I see that the cloud is a huge swarm of insects. Oh no! They’re here!

Plum rains, bug-filled skies

The locusts’ assault continues no matter how many of them we kill. I released the last of my pigeons and told the young farmers who had come with me to head back to the western capital in a hurry.

Dammit! All I needed was another two weeks. The fields have been ravaged; there’s no wheat now, just crushed insects. All our efforts are a drop in the ocean; we are so few against so many. The swarm of insects is enough to blot out the sky, and we can do almost nothing to stop it.

We’ll all starve at this rate. We have to gather up every last scrap of wheat we can still find. We have to strip bark off the trees, pull grass out of the ground. Something, anything!

Plum rains, clear skies

I passed out the last of my white potatoes as provisions, and have chosen to dry my sweet potatoes.

With nothing to eat, the thieving has begun. Adult, child, doesn’t matter. I have nothing left to distribute as food; the most I could do was to share a dried potato with a child who looked on the brink of starvation. My small act of decency.

Some heat, clear skies

Eeeeyaarrrrghhh!

I’m gonna be killed by bandits!

Ugh!

They stole all my cargo!

High summer, clear skies

I can finally see the western capital.

The closer I get, the more officials I find stationed at the nearby villages. The swarm has caused a stream of refugees from the west, and I’m treated as just another one of them.

Ugh, I feel disgusting. Can’t bathe, can’t even get a decent meal. When I catch my reflection in water, I see a dirty man, with an unkempt beard and covered in dust. My small change and my dried potatoes are all gone, but I’ve managed to hold on to my seeds and my mung beans—I’ve guarded them with my life.

After being attacked by bandits and nearly taken for all my potatoes, can you blame me if I don’t have much trust in people anymore? Then again, there are those who have done me a good turn.

I need to hurry back to the western capital so I can tell them what’s going on.

Higher summer, clear skies

I finally made it to the western capital. I told them my name, but it didn’t seem to mean anything to them. What’s with that?

I’m sure it’s not that my name isn’t actually written down anywhere, right?

What should I do at a moment like this? Lahan isn’t here, and it wouldn’t be quite right to drop Maomao’s name. My orders technically come from the Moon Prince. All right, it feels a little childish, but this is an emergency—I’ll have them summon him for me. I need to yell at the top of my lungs or I won’t get a reaction.

I tried yelling, and they threw me in some kind of jail cell.

Okay it is really hot now, clear skies

Thankfully, Maomao and the others came to get me, so I’m back in the mansion in the western capital.

The food problem is really serious. Things are going to turn ugly if people don’t get enough to eat.

All I’ve been able to do for now is to cultivate some modest sustenance.

Early autumn, clear skies

Relief supplies arrived from the royal capital. I checked to see if they included any crops that looked like they might grow quickly, but there was nothing there. Most of it was cereals and medicine, but not nearly enough of either. We’re getting more and more refugees.

Is there no way we can fill everyone’s stomachs? I ponder the question as I feed locusts to the goats and duck, along with whatever meager grass is available.

Lingering heat, clear skies

I hear we’re starting to see cases of malnutrition from lack of food. Maomao says people aren’t getting enough vegetables.

Should I show her the bean sprouts I’ve quietly been growing?

She also asks me whether there’s any way to grow medicinal herbs, but I think that’s going to be a tall order in the western capital.

I wonder what it is about the medical profession that seems to attract so many weirdos. Not just the likes of Maomao or my great-uncle Luomen; there’s also the little old man who’s always inviting me to tea. He says he used to be a physician at the rear palace. He seems like a decent guy, though, so what’s the harm?

Autumn heat, clear skies

Laaaaaahaaaaaannnn!

I’ll kill that bastard!