Uncle Lakan wasn’t there today, but there was some kid. A boy, probably twelve or thirteen years old—not even old enough to have had his coming-of-age ceremony. He’s a quick thinker, so they value him for doing small chores. I’ve seen him around a few times, but I’ve never caught his name. He said he wanted to introduce himself to me. Ah, he really is a quick one, isn’t he? But...hey, your name is Kan Junjie too, huh? Yes, a very common name; I hear it all the time, myself. Wow, so you’re your family’s oldest son? And your nickname is Haku’un? Makes sense; that’s just the sort of thing you would call an eldest son. You know, I happen to be the oldest son of my own family.

What? You’ll use a different name if there’s someone else with the same name around? What? Who does that? I mean, no, you don’t have to do that! Please don’t look at me all resolved like that! I won’t give you any grief just because of a shared name. Hey, wait! Heyyy...

Uncle Lakan is here all the time trying to see Maomao, and it’s obnoxious. I’m amazed the old doctor can stand entertaining him.

Miss Chue said Maomao had gone to the port town to do some shopping. That would make sense for a few days, but now it’s been ten days since we saw her. For that matter, I don’t see Miss Chue either. Plus, the mood at the main house seems pretty grim.

I’m sure something must have happened—but what good would it do for me to say anything? Maybe if I had the power or capacity, but I’ve never had much talent for those sorts of things, and sticking my nose in only seems likely to get me in trouble.

I think I’d gain more from thinking about what to do with the soy beans I’ve harvested. Should I just eat them? Process them somehow? Grow them into bean sprouts? There are so many things I could do.

Something’s wrong with Uncle Lakan. I mean, something’s always been wrong with him, but he’s been acting especially strange lately. I finally found the Moon Prince, but for some reason my uncle was there too, berating Hulan. Hey... Uncle?! Why are you burning those papers?!

He’s scary. In a totally different way from my dad or grandfather.

Heck, Hulan, it’s just as scary how your expression never changes. Wait...what?! Why are you sitting down on the burning papers and bowing your head? Geez! Burns—you’re gonna burn yourself!

Water! We need some water over here!

Twelfth month, clear skies

I gather that the reason Uncle Lakan was so angry at Hulan was because he did something to entrap Maomao. I can see why he would be upset. And to think, he’s just an old guy who’s normally no more than a bit of a nuisance as long as you don’t antagonize him. Oh, and also, he’s kind of a loser.

And Hulan—something’s up with him too. Whatever motivates his behavior, it’s beyond what I can comprehend. I guess he decided his own older brother was in the way of making the Moon Prince the leader of the western capital, so Hulan decided to eliminate him? I can’t believe he plotted all that with that grin on his face. And here I thought he was just a nice guy helping with some chores. Well, I take it all back. I don’t need a little brother like that. I’d even take Lahan over him!

Chill cold, clear skies

Maomao and the others are finally back, but Miss Chue is in bad shape.

What the hell happened? She can’t even use her right arm anymore. It’s a real tragedy.

Year-end, clear skies

Miss Chue has set up camp in the medical office on the grounds that she’s a convalescent. I grant that her injuries are serious, but she’s really just using that as cover to lounge around and do nothing. I feel bad for the friendly old doctor, who seems to spend all his time taking care of her.

I guess they’re finally going to decide who gets to run the western capital. It won’t be the Moon Prince, but apparently a man named Shikyou—Master Gyoku-ou’s oldest son. He’s also, incidentally, Hulan’s older brother and the father of that obnoxious brat Gyokujun.

Are we really gonna be okay with this guy?

New spring, clear skies

I saw Xiaohong today. I thought Gyokujun was bullying her again, but on closer inspection, I saw Xiaohong do something very unexpected. She slapped Gyokujun, taunted him—practically spat on him—and then went off somewhere. There was nothing the boy could do; he just burst into tears. That was when I realized his and Xiaohong’s positions had been reversed completely.

There was one other person besides me who saw the scene: Maomao.

I just 
know
 she had something to do with this!

Early spring, clear skies

I headed off to the farming villages with one thought in mind: This year, I’m going to get them to grow some decent wheat! I’ll see to it that they tread the crop and till the soil. It’s not going to be a repeat of last year—there won’t be any lackadaisical growing practices on my watch!

Things seem pretty busy at the main house too. Probably something to do with the new year. There’s no end of work for politicians. But that’s no concern of mine. I’ve got farming to do.

Cold afoot, cloudy skies

When I got back to the mansion in the western capital, there was nobody there.

Just a second—what’s going on here?! Somebody? Anybody?!

Moon Prince! Maomao! Miss Chue! Friendly old doctor! Lihaku! Uncle Lakan!

What in the world is this?!

Don’t leave me heeeeeere!

○●○

The thick stack of papers turned out to be somebody’s diary. One of the people from the central region must have forgotten it when he went back home. It was discovered at the inn town, at the inn where its author had supposedly waited for his ship.

A great many names appeared in the diary—but of the name of its author there was no sign. Nobody knew whom to return it to. However, from the extensive notes on farming methods and cultivation, the writer was obviously a professional farmer.

Further, if the contents of the book were to be believed, this person was also quite important within the court hierarchy—important enough that he could directly summon a member of the royal family.

However, when the owner of the inn sent the diary to the capital, he was informed that there were no farming specialists among the ranks of the most important bureaucrats. There had been such a person at one point, but he had long ago returned to the royal capital, and there was no way he would have forgotten his diary at the inn town.

At a loss for what else to do, the innkeeper left the book with the gardeners, men who trod the wheat of their gardens with dead looks in their eyes. Strangely, the gardens of the western leader, once regarded as the finest in I-sei Province, had been turned into wheat fields for some reason.

Later, the diary would be edited into a manual of farming techniques, but its author remained unknown.

The gardeners passed the book among themselves and laughed, their small measure of revenge against the interlopers from the central region at whose hands their gardens had suffered so much; but eventually the eye of some scholar lighted upon the diary, and this is the result.