Sanfan said, “To be quite honest, I’d be curious to know how a young woman of marriageable age justifies moving into a young man’s house, no matter how much she may resent her uncle’s attempts to arrange a match. Particularly considering that that meddlesome uncle is currently far away to the west, with no indication of when he will return. I simply don’t know where she finds the nerve to stick around.”

“No. Nothing of the sort,” En’en said—but it took her a long moment to say it. Maomao could be remarkably perceptive about what other people were thinking and feeling. En’en just wished she would have picked a different time to activate that ability. Where was it when En’en needed it?

“You’re imagining things,” En’en said. “I don’t have any particular objections to her idea.”

“Then hurry up and say yes. Not to mention, that’ll solve the problem you were asking me about.”

She was right—but it didn’t 
feel
 right.

“Hrm... I’d have to ask my mistress what she thinks,” said En’en. There was no telling how Yao might react if she learned En’en had summarily moved them out of the mansion. She might not speak to her for three days.

“At the end of the day, Yao really has you wrapped around her little finger, doesn’t she?” Maomao grumbled.

“Are you done with your little huddle?” Sanfan asked.

“I can’t say yes or no to moving out until I’ve consulted with my mistress,” En’en informed her.

“No?” Sanfan tilted her head, puzzled. “Here I thought I’d found an offer that fit all the conditions for your ideal place you described to Sifan and the others.”

En’en was getting angry at the sense that Sanfan was controlling this conversation. “Let me ask you something, then,” she said. “Why are you so eager to get us, and especially my young mistress Yao, out of this house? Perhaps you would be so kind as to enlighten me?”

En’en was feeling petty; she thought Sanfan was hiding something and wanted to see her squirm a bit.

Sanfan’s expression never shifted, however, as she declared, “I am deeply in love with Master Lahan. I would and will do anything for him. So when some misguided, wet-behind-the-ears little girl shows up and tries to make herself his wife just by moving in, what can I call her but a hindrance?”

“Who’s a wet-behind-the-ears little—” En’en was leaning forward when it happened.

The glittering wad of spit came from Maomao. It was filthy, and En’en unconsciously took a half step back.

“Pardon me very much,” Maomao said.

“Not at all...” Tea and bits of rice cracker clung to Sanfan’s face.

“Sanfan, are you insane?” Maomao asked.

“And what would cause you to question my sanity?” she replied, dabbing at her cheek with a handkerchief.

“Tousle-glasses, that’s what! He only ever thinks about making money, he never lets a relationship go too far, and speaking of women, he’s specifically said that he thinks widows are perfect—like the piece of trash that he is. He’s got completely average looks, but if the numbers were lovely enough, he’d be asking whether he could have a child with another man. And on top of all that, anyone who did marry him, I guarantee, would find that freak strategist came with him!”

Maomao’s analysis was accurate, if rather cruel.

“I know all that. I also know that he’ll cut loose anyone and everyone he must to achieve his goals, and that when it comes to those he doesn’t get along with, he’ll make sure they find themselves between a rock and a hard place without ever getting his own hands dirty or leaving any evidence. I know his athletic abilities are abysmal, that he can’t ride a horse or shoot an arrow. He’s all brains and no...anything else.”

Maomao threw her hands in the air, disbelieving. “Then you see what a worthless guy he is!” Her reaction was so over-the-top that En’en’s fury at Yao being called a little girl seemed slightly less absurd in comparison.

It was then that Sanfan blushed, just faintly. “I realize that Master Lahan may not appear to be such a wonderful person, but nonetheless, he was the one who gave me the opportunity to live like myself. He doesn’t twist his thinking just because something is beautiful.”

With apologies to Sanfan, who was clearly in the flush of maidenly love, En’en couldn’t bring herself to think well of Lahan.

Maomao, feeling like she wanted to throw up, gave Sanfan a very serious look. “However highly you may esteem Lahan, Sanfan, he’s a piece of trash. My guess is that just when you think you’ve both had fun and it’s time to seal the deal, he’ll suddenly marry the young daughter of some fine family, as if all your flirting together meant nothing to him. Then he’ll at least pretend to create a perfectly decent family. That guy is no good, I’m telling you. Most of all, I think you would find it hard to become the mistress of this household in your current situation. Remember, you’d be a daughter-in-law to... you know ! You understand? A sweet-toothed freak of an old man would be part of the deal, no question.”

Maomao was merciless, but when one got right down to it, what she was saying was indeed very true.

“I’m more than aware of that, believe me. And they may call me Number Three, but I would be perfectly happy to be Master Lahan’s number two. However, I would want the future mistress of this household to be someone I wanted to support.”

At that, En’en and Maomao were both struck dumb; they shared a look. Sanfan was further gone than they had thought. Did Lahan realize he had allowed a woman of such dangerous ideals so close at hand?

“Come on, just call it quits! There are 
so
 many men out there who are much, much better than Lahan!”

“I’m afraid, Lady Maomao, that there aren’t that many who are willing to think like he does.”

“Sanfan, you may not match my Mistress Yao, but you’re very capable. You’ve just got tunnel vision right now. Try to be rational!”

“Any man who would choose a woman on such narrow-minded criteria as whether she’s 
capable
 is a man I’m not interested in to begin with.”

“I’m telling you, that guy is definitely all about looks. He can say what he wants about numbers, but he loves a pretty face! You’ve got to face reality!” Maomao shook Sanfan by the shoulders.

En’en could at least halfway understand Maomao’s feelings. Why that bespectacled loser should be so popular with the ladies, she couldn’t begin to guess. Some men just seemed to attract women, even when you would think they wouldn’t. Perhaps Lahan had simply been born under such a star.

That was bad: She wanted to hurry and get out of such a dangerous man’s house. Much as she resented it, En’en found herself thinking that maybe she should take Sanfan up on her offer and move out of here. If there was a one in a million, or even a one in ten million, chance that the unthinkable might happen, what would she do?

If Yao really were in love with Lahan...

“Argh! No no no no no!”

“En’en, you’re looking very out of character,” Maomao jibed, but En’en didn’t have time to find the perfect retort. The fear of that which must never be was growing steadily within her—and the problem didn’t seem likely to be solved for some time.

En’en spent the rest of her day off worrying, with no relief in sight.