Yao could see at a glance how close Maomao and Chue were. That was only natural when they’d spent a year together in the western capital, but Yao had the sudden urge to point out that she had known Maomao longer than Chue had.

“It’s true. We’re working.” The diffident answer was the most Yao could muster. Chue might think her rather boring, but Yao had never had much of a gift for humor.

“Goodness gracious, that is 
such
 a shame!” Chue said.

“More importantly, how have you been feeling?” Maomao asked, and Yao could hear in her voice that it wasn’t just a polite question; she was really concerned.

“Oh! I can’t laugh with a broken collarbone! And when I try to sleep, the pain is just awful.”

“Boil some medicine for her, Maomao,” Dr. Liu said brusquely. “And give her some painkillers for bedtime.” For the most part, he left Chue-related matters to Maomao—who, rumor had it, had been the first one to treat the injured Chue.

“All right, Miss Maomao. Please give me lots of honey, lots of citrus, and as little medicine as possible.”

“I’m afraid I only have huge, heaping helpings of medicine.” Maomao ground up some herbs in a mortar, then put them in a cup and mixed in plenty of honey and citrus.

Maomao, looking as if she were finding this a great deal of trouble, topped the green sludge with the tiniest excuse for a wolfberry and put a straw in it.

Chue drank it down, making a sour face.

Was it inappropriate if Yao felt a twinge of jealousy at their easy back-and-forth?

“These are painkillers for before you go to bed,” Maomao said, handing Chue a paper packet. “If you’re not in any pain, you don’t need to take them.”

“That’s a big help! I can’t even turn over in my sleep.”

At first, Yao had thought Chue must be exaggerating, but when she saw the bandages on her hand and the wounds that ran all the way from her chest to her belly, she began to wonder instead what manner of beast had attacked the woman.

For a mere lady-in-waiting to be seen by one of the most highly ranked physicians in the palace would normally have been unconscionable—the fact that it was happening anyway attested to just how great Chue’s achievements must have been. Nonetheless, as someone who didn’t know Chue very well, the best thing Yao could think was Who is this weirdo?

“Oh! That reminds me, Miss Maomao.” Chue fished two letters from the folds of her robes. “I have letters for you! Miss Chue is not a goat, so don’t worry, she wouldn’t eat them!”

“And neither would your goat, because you left it back in the western capital, didn’t you?”

“Yes, yes! Much like how we forgot your poor brother.”

“We don’t talk about that.” Maomao made a big X with her hands.

“Oh, don’t worry! He’ll be home very soon. His ship should arrive any day.”

“I’m glad to hear that.”

Yao, who had no idea what any of this meant, started to feel a little left out, but at the same time, she didn’t have it in her to simply jump into the conversation.

Maomao studied the letters intently. They didn’t say who the sender was, but the handwriting and paper seemed to give her a good idea. One of the letters she regarded with a scowl; the other, with what Yao took to be steeled resolve.

“You, come here when you’ve had your medicine. I’ll change your bandages,” said Dr. Liu.

“Yessir! Right away, sir!” Chue said and trundled into the exam room.

“Yes, sir. Yao, could you take care of the rest of these?”

“Yeah, sure.”

The doctor had summoned Maomao too, so only Yao was left to finish wiping down the scalpels.

When Yao’s shift was over, she went back to Lakan’s estate. And someone was waiting for her.

“Lady Yao, welcome. I’ve found a new place you might like. What do you think?”

It was the servant called Sanfan, who approached Yao holding the blueprints of a house. Sanfan looked like a handsome young man at first glance, but in fact she was a woman in men’s clothing. It was notable that she greeted Yao not with “welcome home” but simply “welcome.”

“You could move here, just to try it out. If you don’t like it, you could move again. I’ll find as many places as you need.” Sanfan sounded very solicitous, but this was a roundabout way of saying Get the hell out.

At that point, En’en appeared, putting herself between Sanfan and Yao. “Young mistress, you must be tired. How about a bath?” she said. Then she turned to Sanfan. “Sanfan, the young mistress is tired. Perhaps we could talk about this later.”

“But of course. I can have everything prepared at a moment’s notice. You have but to ask.”

“Heh, how kind of you. It looks like you’re going somewhere yourself. Sure you don’t need to hurry?” Yao said. She had grown up a little herself. Instead of getting openly angry, she responded with her own equivalent of Hurry up and leave.

“Ah, yes. We’ll be having visitors today. The two of you can feel free to relax in the annex,” Sanfan told them. Then she left, the resentment practically radiating off her. En’en watched her go, a conflicted expression on her face.

“What’s the matter?” Yao asked. Normally, En’en would have hissed and spat at Sanfan as she left, but today she did nothing. In fact, she’d been acting a bit unusual ever since her recent day off.

“Ugh, 
such
 bad taste,” En’en was mumbling.

“Who has bad taste? What kind of taste?”

“Oh, it’s nothing.” En’en prepared a change of clothes and a towel.

The annex on Lakan’s property where Yao and En’en were currently living had no bath of its own. Instead, they’d been given a particularly large bucket that they could use in lieu of a tub. At first they had borrowed the bathtub in the main house, but that servant, Sanfan, had gone out of her way to give them the bucket. Once again, it seemed like an act of kindness on the surface, the message seemed to be that they should not use the house’s bathtub.

Sanfan clearly felt hostility toward Yao, and Yao was none too fond of Sanfan either.

“Come on, young mistress. Let’s wash up,” En’en said.

“Lady Yao? Young mistress?” En’en said.

“Yeah, En’en? What is it?”

Well, now Maomao was back. What reason could she come up with next?

“Say, En’en.”

“Guh?”