Character Profiles

Maomao

A former pleasure-district apothecary. After a stint in the rear palace and then the royal court, she now finds herself an assistant to the medical office. She used to be quite prickly, but she’s gotten much softer. She still retains her love of all things medicinal and poisonous, however, as well as her contempt for her biological father, Lakan. She’s finally started to seriously entertain Jinshi’s feelings. Twenty-one years old.

Jinshi

The Emperor’s younger brother. Inhumanly beautiful. His astounding looks are at odds with his straightforward personality, and the disconnect can cause misunderstandings. In his next life, he wants to be like Lahan’s Brother. Real name: Ka Zuigetsu. Twenty-two years old.

Basen

Gaoshun’s son; Jinshi’s attendant. He has feelings for His Majesty’s former consort Lishu. Sometimes called a bear in men’s clothing. Twenty-two years old.

Chue

Wife of Gaoshun’s son Baryou. She acts silly, but she’s a member of the Mi clan and an expert at gathering intelligence. She sustains such serious injuries rescuing Maomao that she has to give up being Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting.

Gaoshun

A well-built soldier, he was formerly Jinshi’s attendant, but now he serves the Emperor personally. His wife, Taomei, is Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting, and has her husband thoroughly cowed.

Lahan

The younger brother of his older brother, Lahan’s Brother. A small man with round glasses, he’s nonetheless popular with women, for some reason. He has a head for numbers and knows how to swim with the tide.

Lahan’s Brother

Lahan’s older brother. He’s actually a very capable person, but because he doesn’t realize that, he always seems to come up with the short end of the stick. He’d almost given up on having anyone actually call him by his real name. He has a gift for farming.

Lakan

Dotes on his daughter Maomao. Luomen’s nephew. A freak with a monocle, he nonetheless holds the military’s highest title, Grand Commandant. Has a sweet tooth but can’t hold his alcohol.

Lihaku

A burly soldier. Sort of like everyone’s older brother. Hopes to buy out the courtesan Pairin’s contract.

Suiren

Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting and former wet nurse. A real soft touch when it comes to Jinshi.

Empress Gyokuyou

The Emperor’s legal wife. An exotic beauty with red hair and green eyes. She’s the mother of the Crown Prince, but because she comes from the western capital, many feel she’s not fit for her office. Twenty-three years old.

Yao

Maomao’s colleague and Vice Minister Lu’s niece. She may not know much about the world, but she’s trying to make it on her own as best she can. Has recently taken an interest in Lahan. Seventeen years old.

En’en

Maomao’s colleague, she’s also Yao’s lady-in-waiting. She lives for Yao, but she’s also a big part of the reason Yao isn’t off on her own yet. It bothers her no end to see Yao interested in Lahan. Twenty-one years old.

Tianyu

A young physician. A dangerous character who especially likes corpses and dissections. Supposedly a descendant of Kada.

Maamei

Basen’s older sister. Since Taomei and Gaoshun, her mother and father, were in the western capital, it fell to her to run Ma clan affairs. She can be a force to be reckoned with.

Dr. Liu

An upper physician. He and Luomen go way back. He imparts stern instruction to Maomao and her friends.

Dr. Li

A middle physician. He went to the western capital with Maomao and the others, and the stuff he went through there really beefed him up.

Joka

One of the Three Princesses at the Verdigris House. She knows the Four Classics and Five Books by heart. She possesses a broken jade tablet.

Pairin

One of the Three Princesses at the Verdigris House. An amply endowed woman with a gift for dancing.

Lishu

Formerly one of His Majesty’s high consorts, she hails from the U clan. She currently lives in a convent.

Ah-Duo

An old friend of the Emperor’s and one of his former high consorts. They had a son together. Thirty-nine years old.

Kokuyou

A young man with smallpox scars on his face. He’s quite cheerful, and is an excellent doctor.