“Ha ha ha! Sir Lakan is a rather birdlike character, isn’t he?” The old man didn’t appear especially bothered, skipping right over Lakan and clasping Lahan’s Brother’s hand. He even went over to offer a polite hello to Maomao and the other women, but didn’t go so far as to shake their hands. “I would so love to shake the hands of such fine young ladies, but we can’t go provoking unwanted jealousy! Let me decline the honor, though I weep for it!” he said.

Servants led Maomao and the others from the front door through a hallway that ran beside the courtyard garden. The guests who had already arrived were enjoying tea in an open-air pavilion or feeding the carp in the pond.

One of them noticed Maomao’s party coming down the hallway and turned toward them—then promptly paled and hid behind one of the pavilion’s posts. Why? It could easily have been either the freak strategist—who was idly watching a butterfly flutter by—or Lahan, who was walking along with a very forced smile on his face.

“I understand your anxiety, but could you please not grip my arm 
quite
 so hard?”

Somewhere along the line, Yao had taken a very firm hold on Maomao’s hand.

“Oh!” She quickly let go and walked a few steps ahead, looking awkward. She seemed to be nervous, in her own way.

One thing’s for sure: The freak strategist does make a good deterrent.

In the same way insects avoided malodorous plants, this man helped keep bugs at bay. The catch was, those using such plants as bug repellent had to put up with the stink themselves.

The servant moved down the hallway at a good clip. The group passed door after identical door of what were evidently guest rooms, until they found themselves in a completely separate building.

“Here you are,” the servant said.

“Here, sir?” Maomao asked. This was obviously nothing like the rooms housing the other clans. It felt less like special treatment and more like quarantine. When something stinks, you put a lid on it.

“Ah, a separate building, yes. Here my honored father won’t cause trouble for the other guests if he starts singing or dancing, and even if the place catches fire, it won’t spread to the main house.”

Lahan’s visions of what might happen were troubling, but one had to admit they couldn’t be ruled out. The freak strategist was a man with a history of trying to smash his way into the rear palace, after all.

“Which room should my young mistress use?” En’en asked. The annex had only one living room and three individual chambers.

“I wanna stay with Maomao!” said the freak. He was already lying back on the couch in the living room like he was in his own home.

“You, Honored Father, are the eldest, so you get a room to yourself,” said Lahan, deflating the old fart.

Lahan’s Brother looked all around like a true country mouse. “Maybe the three women could share the largest room,” he suggested.

“Fine by me,” Maomao said.

“Yeah, I don’t see a problem with that,” added Yao.

“Yes, that’s fine,” En’en said.

There would be no room for their three bodyguards, but the living room was big enough that it should serve.

The party split up into their assigned quarters and put down their luggage. There were four beds in the room, with freshly changed sheets that smelled lovely.

I guess the assumption is that people are going to stay overnight.

Reasonable enough; the banquets probably went into the wee hours.

“This is pretty laid-back for a formal meeting,” Yao observed.

“They said there’s going to be a meal in the banquet hall at noon, so we should get changed,” En’en said. She produced some clothes for Yao from the luggage. There was also a complete makeup set, along with a batch of hair sticks so heavy it jangled.

“En’en, one question,” Maomao said, raising her hand.

“You seem very...into this.”

“This is a chance to formally present Lady Yao to a whole host of people from famous houses. There can be no shortcomings in her outfit.”

“Don’t you think pretty much any outfit would do? You’ve made me change clothes so many times since last night that people hardly knew it was me. It was awful!” Yao complained.

En’en was a supremely competent lady-in-waiting, but she seemed to be missing one thing.

“If you dress Yao up too nicely, won’t that just make more people want to marry her? What’s the point of getting all fancied up?” said Maomao.

Yao’s whole reason for coming here was supposedly to turn down the man who wanted to marry her. Dressing up would only emphasize what a lovely young lady she was and what a fine family she came from—and wouldn’t that attract the wrong kind of insect?

En’en paused for a long moment, looking from Yao to the outfit and back, obviously agonizing about it. En’en was very competent, yes, but when it came to Yao she could go a bit crazy. After long deliberation, she removed one hair stick from the bundle with which she planned to decorate her young mistress.

“You ought to dress up yourself a bit, Maomao,” she sniffed.

“This is plenty.”

Maomao’s ordinary outfit was easy to move in and kept her cool. Even if it probably did make her look like one of the servants to everyone else.

That old man earlier hadn’t greeted the bodyguards but had nonetheless said hello to Maomao, En’en, and Yao. He certainly hadn’t thought Maomao was a servant. He’d probably looked into her background ahead of time.

Maybe he’s more than just a charmer.

Maomao scratched her chin thoughtfully.

“I have clothes here for you too, Maomao. There’s no need for you to say something like ‘As you can see, I’m not in a fit outfit to present myself before everyone else, so you all go enjoy the banquet without me’ and hide in your room—so don’t worry!”

That left Maomao silent.

“Come on, it’s almost time! Let’s get ready,” En’en said. She shoved the outfit at Maomao and helped Yao change.

“What a pain,” Maomao grumbled, but decided to get changed. It didn’t look like En’en was going to give her any choice.