“What’s more, this is supposedly the first time the La clan has participated in fifteen years.”

Presumably meaning since the freak strategist had become head of the family.

Maomao joined Yao in looking out the window. There were carriages ahead of and behind them, Lahan in the former and the strategist in the latter.

Stupid Lahan, paying for a whole other carriage just because he doesn’t want to ride with that freak.

There should have been plenty of room for two people in a single carriage. Normally Lahan abhorred waste, but it hadn’t stopped him this time. Maomao resolved to give him a piece of her mind when they got out of their respective rides—though she would have to dodge the strategist while she did so.

The carriage stopped in front of the mansion. A crowd of other guests was already there, along with any number of ornate carriages.

I guess this is a fine estate, as far as it goes , Maomao thought. In the time she’d spent among the noblest of the noble, she seemed to have become rather picky. She was on the verge of comparing this place with the Emperor’s palace.

Not a habit I want to be in.

In truth, this estate was of a quality boasted by only a few of the richest merchants in the capital, yet Maomao found herself unable to be particularly impressed by it. So instead of worrying about how ornate the house was, she started to evaluate whether it displayed good taste.

A flagstone path met Maomao and the others as they walked through the gate, and gardens spread out on either side.

The building itself is pretty old, but it’s been kept up well, so it doesn’t 
feel
 old.

It was also very large, suggesting that maybe it had been built specifically to accommodate these meetings. It contained a series of similar-looking rooms, and Maomao could see servants leading guests to different chambers. There was no ostentatious furniture, but there were detailed carvings on the posts and walls. The house was very open and probably got excellent airflow. The architecture seemed to prioritize summer livability.

A stand of bamboo in the garden gave the place an elegant atmosphere. Bamboo was far hardier than it looked, and if left to its own devices would sprout up just about anywhere—including straight through the floor—so it took a lot of minding. There were no piles of fallen leaves around, showing that the gardeners were doing their jobs.

The garden had been divided into areas evoking different seasons, and at the moment the peach trees were in full bloom. If only a rain shower would come through, it might be even more beautiful. The rest of the garden was a riot of colorful flowers, yet it was clear that they’d been planted with some thought for overall visual harmony.

“Maomaaaaao!” cried the freak strategist, tromping toward her the moment he got out of his carriage. Maomao gave him a very annoyed look, her hackles rising as if to say Don’t get any closer. She’d meant to hide behind Yao and En’en and just ignore him, but then someone caught her eye. It was Lahan’s Brother.

“Yes, it’s me,” he replied bluntly.

“Lahan’s Brother!”

“Who are you calling Lahan’s Brother?!”

Apparently, Lahan’s Brother would permit “brother,” but no more.

“I see you’re home safely, Lahan’s Brother,” Maomao said. She hadn’t seen him since he’d gotten back, and she was relieved—after all, she was part of the reason he’d had so much trouble getting home. She’d plum forgotten to tell him they were leaving. She’d been dealing with a lot at the time, but still.

“Elder Brother” gave Maomao a good glare, then looked pointedly away.

He’s mad.

Should she point out that it was such a sullen-little-girl thing to do that it wasn’t intimidating at all?

“Maomaaao! They say the food at this inn is really good. Let’s eat plenty!”

The freak strategist seemed to be in very high spirits. This, Maomao presumed, was why Lahan had wanted her here.

“Come on, let’s go. They should already have rooms prepared for us.” Lahan clapped his hands, urging them all inside. Even the three carriage drivers came along. They were all large men, since they doubled as bodyguards.

Maomao was a little nervous, because she’d been expecting Sanfan to come along, but even Lahan wasn’t willing to stoke that fire further. She didn’t want to think about a standoff between Sanfan and Yao. Most importantly, though, if Sanfan had come, there wouldn’t have been anyone to watch the house back in the capital.

“We’re not kids. Don’t summon us with your little clap-clap,” Lahan’s Brother snapped. In Maomao’s opinion, it was understandable—since some of their number were emotionally children. Lahan’s Brother kicked a pebble at his feet, another girlish gesture.

There was a line of servants in front of the entryway, all bowing their heads. “Welcome, welcome!” said a plump, jovial older man who came out to greet them. He must have been easily 110 kilograms, and his cheeks glistened. He was no servant, but the master of the house.

“Ahh, to have the La clan here! The records tell me it’s been some fifteen years since we saw you last. I am Chu Ki. I’m technically retired—already handed the clan headship over to my son, you see—but it still behooves me to be hospitable to our guests. Please, make yourselves at home.”

The jovial old Chu Ki extended his hand to Lakan, but Lakan simply stared around the house and dug around in his ear with his finger.

There was an uneasy moment of silence, until Lahan took the old man’s hand instead. “We humbly thank you for your invitation. I’ve heard that our family participated in this meeting many times in my grandfather’s day. We hope only that we might spend a few profitable days with everyone here.”

The Chus’ ancestor had apparently been quite a charmer, and his descendants seemed to have inherited his gift of the gab.

“Now, come! There’s a room all ready for you to relax in. Take it easy and enjoy yourselves this evening.”

“Yao,” Maomao said, glancing at the other woman.

“Y-Yes?”

Because En’en is glaring at me and it’s scaring me.

“Yes, Maomao?”

Still...