Maomao stole a glance at the Ma table and saw Basen looking deeply conflicted. No doubt he was thinking of his pet duck back home.

“I do feel a little bad for it, but that’s life. It is livestock, after all,” said Lahan’s Brother, with calm acceptance. The servant had carved the duck, and Lahan’s Brother was enjoying some with gusto.

Maomao tried to take the bottle of 
huangjiu
 that was on the table.

“Why not?” Maomao demanded, giving him a dirty look.

“You have work to do, Maomao, so you must drink in moderation.”

Then Lahan asked the servant to clear away all the alcohol on the table. Only the barely alcoholic fruit wine remained.

Maomao ate her meal in sullen silence.

It turned out Old Chu wasn’t the only elderly gasbag in attendance. After his speech was over, some retiree from one of the other clans started in on a winding history of Li. It was an entire half hour before he was done, and by then Maomao’s stomach was full of food.

“And now, everyone, please relax and enjoy yourselves.”

How they had waited for those words! The entire venue burst into riotous applause.

The old folks left the stage, and a dancing girl in a gorgeous outfit took their place. She expertly manipulated her billowing sleeves in a dazzling display. In line with the casual atmosphere of the meeting, the music seemed aimed at the young people, bright and cheery, and gilded the conversations nicely.

The youngsters got up out of their seats and started visiting with each other. Some chatted with the prettiest girls they could find; others paid their respects to the heads of other clans or introduced acquaintances to each other.

The elderly leaders stayed in their seats and smiled at the goings-on, but there were a few youngsters—perhaps favored by the elders—who received greetings from the elders instead of the other way around.

Several people could be seen scurrying off to the private conversation rooms—youth being youth, cliques seemed to have formed quickly.

Now, as for Maomao and her table...

“No one’s visiting us, huh?” Lahan’s Brother said, sipping his soup.

“If you’re tired of waiting, you’re welcome to get up and walk around, Brother.” Lahan showed no sign of getting up himself; he still wanted to enjoy a leisurely meal.

“That’s not really what I mean,” said Lahan’s Brother. He was possessed of something resembling common sense, and it bothered him that they alone seemed to be a table of pariahs.

“Isn’t this meal delicious, En’en?” said Yao.

“Yes, mistress. I’ll have to recreate it for one of our dinners.”

Yao and En’en seemed to have expected that no one would visit their table, and it didn’t worry them. Maomao was likewise enjoying the food, but she hadn’t forgotten why she was really there.

“So, where’s this guy who was making passes at you, Yao? Is he here?”

“No, but his clan is.”

“Which one is it?”

You’ve got to be kidding.

Maomao stole a glance at Lahan. His eyes behind his glasses were narrowed, but she thought she saw a gleam that heralded a serious headache.

“I’d like to go talk to them now,” said Yao, standing up.

Lahan, Maomao, and Lahan’s Brother all panicked. Yao and En’en hadn’t heard the story of the falling-out between the U and Shin clans. Meanwhile, Lahan’s Brother wasn’t involved, but he knew how to read a situation. He really was a good guy.

“Just hold on a minute. Please,” Maomao said, exchanging a look with Lahan.

Should we tell her about the Shin and the U?

The thing was, En’en might listen, but Yao could be headstrong. Deciding it was better not to stick her neck out, Maomao heaved a sigh. “Do you have any connections at all to the Shin clan?”

“No,” Yao said uncomfortably.

“I thought not. Which means, if you ask me, that it would be considered very rude for you to simply walk up to the clan’s most important members and start talking to them.”

“I know that.” Yao pursed her lips, but only a little.

Maybe she’s gotten just a bit more mature in the year since I saw her last?

Maomao looked to Lahan again. He had probably already grasped what was going on with Yao and En’en.

“I was about to talk to the Shin about a matter of business,” he said. “Let me begin the discussion. I understand how eager you are to resolve this problem that’s besetting you, but you two are fundamentally outsiders. If you go poking your nose in where you’re not welcome and leave my family in the red, I’ll boot you out of our house so fast your heads will spin.”

It might have sounded cruel, but Lahan was absolutely right. Yao bit her lip, and En’en wore an expression like an avenging demon’s.

En’en, meanwhile, hasn’t changed at all , thought Maomao. She was actually starting to worry that if they didn’t do something about En’en, Yao would never be able to spread her wings. Wasn’t there anyone who might be able to lower En’en’s hackles?

“Here’s what’s going to happen. My family and I are going to go talk to the Shin clan, and you two are going to stay here. Once I’ve finished my business with them, of course, I’ll introduce you.”

“Question: Don’t you think there could be trouble if just two of us stay at this table?” En’en asked, raising an eyebrow.

“It’ll be fine. My brother will stay and look after you.”

“I will?!” This was evidently news to Lahan’s Brother, who was so surprised that he stood up out of his seat. “N-Nobody said anything about that to me!”

Lahan patted Lahan’s Brother on the shoulder. “Brother, Brother. I couldn’t possibly in good conscience leave two beautiful young women sitting by themselves. I’m so terribly sorry, but won’t you stay here and watch out for them?”

Lahan’s Brother looked at Yao and En’en. Lahan whispered in his ear: “My honored father absolutely must be present at these negotiations, but it would be trouble if all the men simply got up and walked away. Please, Brother—you’re the only one who can help me!”

Well, “whispered”—he made sure the rest of them could hear every word.

Lahan’s Brother caved. “Y... Yeah, all right.”

“You’re such a help, Brother.”

Watching the scene, Maomao realized she was seeing how Lahan had convinced him to go to the western capital. Lahan’s Brother was simply too good for his own good.