Maomao ignored him and took a deep breath. “If you’d be so kind, perhaps I could ask you a few questions.” She mentally reviewed the features of the story that had caught her attention. “Can you describe the exact shape of the dragon statue?”

“The exact shape? The size was... Well, perhaps it would be quicker if I drew you a picture.”

The mistress’s aide passed her paper and a writing utensil, and she quickly produced an excellent sketch of a dragon.

“Oh, I’m an amateur. I just do it to pass the time.”

The creature the woman had drawn was a basic dragon, about like what Maomao would have expected. It had a long body like a huge snake, and two horns. The claws of one of its front paws clutched the gemstone, and it had a flowing mane. Assuming the woman had drawn it to size, it rested on a base of about nine centimeters.

It’s smaller than I expected.

There was nothing particularly unusual about it—except for one thing.

“It has four claws on each paw?” Lahan asked. And indeed, the paw with which the dragon held the gemstone appeared to have been drawn with only four digits.

“That’s correct. I realize such a depiction would normally only be allowed to the Imperial family, but it simply goes to show how much the emperor at the time loved the crown prince. This was proof that even once he had reduced himself to a subject, he was still the emperor’s son. He was given a gemstone—an amethyst.”

Purple was second only to gold among colors considered to be noble.

I seem to remember the empress dowager liked to wear gold clothing.

The most noble of colors was called massicot, a reddish-gold hue that no one but the Emperor was allowed to use.

“Was the dragon statue made of pure gold?” Maomao asked.

“No, I think it had some silver mixed in.”

Pure gold was very soft—easy to work, but equally easy to damage or destroy. Combining it with silver would make the statue stronger.

Maomao closed her eyes and tried to mentally organize the information they had received.

Sometimes when two metals are mixed together, it can lower the melting point of the resulting combination. But I don’t think gold and silver lower it that much.

But if there was indeed no lie in what the mistress said, she evidently genuinely thought that the heirloom had been caught in the fire and melted down.

“Could you please describe once more in detail the scene of the fire?” Maomao asked.

The Shin grandson, however, jumped to his feet. “Argh! I’ve had enough of this! Grandmother, why are we wasting our time explaining when we could be settling things with the U clan right now? Let’s go!”

He pulled on his grandmother’s hand, but the aide dropped a knuckle on him. “Calm down.”

“Urk...” The grandson rubbed his head.

Huh! I feel like I’m getting déjà vu...

It was almost like she was looking at Gaoshun and Basen. Did all physically robust families talk with their fists?

“May we continue?” Lahan asked the mistress politely.

“Please do.”

“You heard her,” he said, waving to Maomao.

Maomao collected herself and asked, “What was the cause of the fire, ma’am?”

After a moment, the other woman responded, “It spread from a light in the archives.”

“Oh, I...see!” Maomao grabbed her side; the freak strategist had suddenly jabbed her with a finger.

The hell is he doing?! Maomao seriously considered smashing the strategist’s toes, not just to let off steam, but for real. She saw, however, that the monocled freak’s eyes were shining strangely, as though he were a dog who had brought an item he’d been told to fetch and was waiting to be told what a good boy he was.

Is he trying to tell me that what the mistress just said was a lie?

The freak strategist’s already narrow eyes narrowed even further. Maomao appreciated that he had alerted her to the deception, but it made her kind of sick to have him poke her, so she gave him a smack on the hand.

Why would she try to cover the cause of the fire?

Maomao considered carefully, then asked her next question. “Exactly how much of the storehouse burned?”

The mistress looked at the ground, searching her memories. “It didn’t fully collapse, but the inside was scorched black. It was full of books and other flammable items, and hardly any of them survived.”

“So the books were lost. That would imply any furniture went too. But a vase, for example, might have been safe, right? Then again, I suppose any artworks would have lost their value. Were there any swords or armor in there?”

“Several display pieces, yes. I also recall that the family’s trousseau survived—maybe it was far enough away from the source of the fire.”

The freak strategist didn’t react to that.

“One last question, then. You said the leader of the U clan was there and helped to put out the fire. Had he planned to visit that day? Or did he just happen to drop in?”

The mistress closed her eyes. “He had prior plans to visit our home.”

“So you were aware that he would be there?”

The mistress went silent for a long moment. Finally, she said, “No... His visit was a surprise for the Shin clan.”

The way she said it certainly seemed to invite more questions, but the strategist still didn’t react, so it was probably the truth.

“Why do you think he showed up so suddenly?”

Another pause. “I suspect it was on the empress regnant’s orders. I told you how they toadied to her at the time. Back then, my husband had only recently become the head of the Shin clan. He was still young and his blood was hot. Those who opposed the empress regnant worked him up, told him that even if he wasn’t an Imperial family member, his status was practically as good. And in the midst of all that, we got a visit from the U clan. Do you understand?”

“Had they come to suppress any evidence of rebellion?”

“Most likely.” Her tone was evasive, probably because the fire had claimed everything. “All our family treasures turned to ash, but personally, I thought that was well and good. When I considered the empress regnant’s force of will, it seemed a miracle that our clan hadn’t been extinguished long ago. The only thing I regret about that incident is that my husband never reconciled with the man who had once been one of his closest friends.”

The mistress began to weep a flood of tears; she swiped at them with her handkerchief as if trying to push them back.

“Are you finished with your questions?” the grandson asked Maomao, just managing to sound polite.

“Yes, thank you.”

“And have you figured anything out?”

“I have.”

“What?!”

Not just the grandson, but the aide and even the mistress herself were shocked at this reply.

“You cracked the whole case from what you were just told?” the grandson asked.

“I haven’t figured out everything. There are a few points I’m still not sure about.”

Lahan was nodding; he must have caught on to at least some of what Maomao had noticed. The freak strategist’s gaze, meanwhile, was fixed on the old woman to make sure she wasn’t lying.

“A few points like what?”

“Such as?”

“Hm?”