“What we’ve said here is ultimately speculation. It’s not necessarily the truth,” Maomao said. She felt she had to clarify. It was always possible that someone from the U clan had eyed the statue for potential profit, in which case it had almost certainly been melted down long ago. But that was beyond Maomao’s purview.

The freak strategist had stretched out on the table, his head lolling from side to side. He’d evidently finished all his snacks and had time to kill. He was looking regretfully at the very last hawthorn berry.

“If it bothers you that much, why not just ask?” he said, staring hard at one of the room’s walls.

“Just ask?” Maomao repeated. What in the world was he talking about?

She went to the wall and pulled back the soundproofing cloth that covered it. Behind it she found a small room with several people seated inside.

“What the hell?! A room?! The people in here can hear everything!”

“What is the meaning of this?” the aide said, glaring at Lahan.

“Oh! Yes. Right,” Lahan said, theatrically clapping his hands. “I promised to meet with the U clan as well!”

Maomao glared at tousle-glasses too, also rather theatrically. “In the same room? So that they would be sure to hear what we said?”

The nerve!

It wasn’t even clear that they had really solved the Shin clan’s problem, and now he had sparked a whole new issue.

“Why don’t you go ahead and come in?”

At Lahan’s invitation, the people from the small room piled into the larger one.

“And here I was starting to wonder if anyone from the La clan was ever going to show up. Was this your plan all along?” asked the leader of the U clan in annoyance—Maomao took him to be Lishu’s grandfather. She’d heard he was unwell, and indeed he looked like a withered branch. He had a long beard, and sat in a chair with wheels, pushed around by a middle-aged woman.

“I realize how rude this was, and I apologize. I simply couldn’t allow anyone to breathe a word about it.” The leader of the U clan entered the room, remaining seated in his wheeled chair.

“Yes. It seemed like the perfect opportunity to resolve this old dispute, but I thought it might take a drastic remedy.” Lahan had an odd smile on his face and bowed his head deeply.

The Shin mistress imitated Lahan, rising from her seat and bowing. Her grandson looked infuriated to realize someone had been eavesdropping on them, but the aide forced his head down and he had no choice but to bow as well.

“Thank you for your help those forty years ago,” the mistress said.

“Whatever do you mean? Ahem, perhaps my wife decided to meddle a bit, I suppose...”

He was going to play dumb? Maomao decided she wasn’t a fan of this guy.

“Ah, yes,” he went on. “I remembered that I have something of yours in my keeping, and I’ve come to return it.” The old man’s nurse reached under the wheelchair and took out a small but heavy-looking package. “This is for you.”

He placed it on the table and opened it. Inside was a stunning gold statue of a dragon.

Holy smokes!

Maomao, as unfortunately was her wont, was already calculating how much it would go for if she sold it. No doubt Lahan was working the abacus in his head at the same moment. From the statue’s size and shape, Maomao estimated how heavy it must be, and concluded that there was an awful lot of gold in there. Factor in the delicacy of the work, and the thing could probably buy a nice house or two.

But it also had fearsome details: The dragon had only four fingers, and it clutched a gemstone of a reddish hue.

The U clan leader’s eyes began to brim with tears as he looked at it. “I’m such a poor student,” he said. “He always bragged so much about his heirloom, but I didn’t really pay attention to what exactly it was. So when I saw it with my own eyes for the first time that day, I was shaken. Maybe the rumors of rebellion really were true, I thought.”

The U patriarch held out the palms of his hands. Both showed old burn scars, as if he had grabbed something very hot. Maomao could practically picture him picking up the statue, which would have been searing with the heat of the fire.

A four-clawed dragon clutching a gemstone the color of massicot... This man had taken the still-hot statue and hidden it. If anyone else had found it and reported it to the empress regnant, there would almost certainly not be a Shin clan today.

“I wanted to give it back to him before he died. Yet I was scared. What if it inspired him to plot rebellion again? He always hated the former empress dowager, even though I knew he thought more highly of the Imperial family than anyone else you could meet.”

Perhaps he’d accepted the command to surveil his friend in part because he’d assumed there was no way he would ever find evidence of treason.

“When I get to the next life, maybe he’ll pop me one for being so quick to jump to the wrong conclusion!”

“No, not at all. You know how he was. I think he’ll be the first to throw himself down and apologize. Although he might be a bit upset with me for having taken matters into my own hands!” the mistress said. “Heh heh—I did try to burn the heirloom, storehouse and all, after all.” She smiled, and one lone tear rolled down her cheek.

“This... This is our family’s heirloom?” The grandson looked at the dragon statue. The aide blinked; maybe he, too, was seeing it for the first time. Both men looked deeply moved, yet it seemed they could also see how one might be suspected of plotting treason if one possessed such a treasure.

“Now you have the statue back, but I suppose you won’t be able to tell anyone about it,” Maomao said.

“I suppose not. The story of how we received it, including a description of the number of claws, was written down, but unfortunately it burned,” the mistress said awkwardly. “The dragon by itself is one thing, but we have to do something about the number of claws and the gemstone.”

The freak strategist abruptly inserted himself into the conversation. “If you take care of those two things, that’s enough, yeah?”

“Do you have an idea?” the mistress asked. Meanwhile, the U clan folks backed away from him. How many people had he inconvenienced over the course of his life?

“With fewer claws and no gemstone there’s no problem, right?” said the strategist. He picked up one of the metal skewers and plucked off the last hawthorn berry. Then he wedged the skewer between the dragon’s claws.

Everyone was too stunned to react, which meant there was no one to stop the freak strategist from giving the skewer a good pull. There was a terrible noise and the claw snapped off. Maomao hardly knew what was happening. In fact, she almost couldn’t believe that metal could break so easily.

The dragon’s thinnest digits were weaker than the others, and the claw that broke had been supporting the gemstone, which went tumbling.

“That should do it.” Where the gemstone had once been, the freak strategist placed the bright red hawthorn berry. A thick rope of sugar followed it from his fingers.

Time stopped.

The scene, so moving until an instant ago, sobered immediately. The mistress’s eyes dried on the spot; her aide’s and grandson’s jaws dropped so far they looked like they might fall off. The members of the U clan likewise looked on in absolute astonishment.

Lahan, meanwhile, looked as if he had burned to ash. Maomao almost thought she could see cracks spidering across his glasses. Everything had been going exactly according to plan—and yet at the bitter end, it had somehow gone completely awry. Even the guards stood frozen. No one in the room had imagined that this conversation would end with someone breaking the heirloom.

So it was Maomao who moved first.

“What the hell are you doing, you moron?!” Completely ignoring the fact that there were people watching, she gave the freak strategist a good kick. He was such an utter weakling that it sent him flying.

Under any other circumstances, such behavior would have been unforgivably rude, but at that moment nobody said a word to Maomao. In fact, it was probably better that she had done it.

Lahan had miscalculated.

The freak strategist, in fact, couldn’t 
be
 accounted for in calculations. He would always throw them off.

That was simply the kind of star under which he had been born.