Chapter 5: A Gong Resounds in the Heart

One must not try to account for the freak strategist in one’s calculations.

A wise saying indeed, but by the time the lesson was learned, it was too late. Lahan, white as a sheet, seemed to have even more tousle to his hair than usual.

As far as Maomao was concerned, he had brought it on himself, and she sympathized with the Shin and U clans for having had their emotional reunion so abruptly shattered.

“Why did you kick me?” the strategist asked, uncomprehending. Erfan, and Erfan alone, was tending to him, patting him on his be-kicked side. A man more than forty years old having to be comforted like a child. Pathetic.

In any case...

The one silver lining was that things had somehow worked out with the statue.

“We were going to have to think about whether to do just that,” the Shin mistress had said, rescuing them. Ultimately they decided to change out the gemstone and modify the dragon to have three claws.

As a modest measure of apology, Lahan agreed to introduce them to a craftsman he knew—someone very skilled and very tight-lipped, someone who could be trusted.

“Ha ha ha. Well then, let us talk of things to come,” Lahan said. He wanted the Shin and U to be in his debt. He wanted to have connections that he could use to bring them business propositions.

“I’m afraid we must be getting back to the banquet,” said the Shin mistress.

“Ah, yes, and I,” said the U patriarch.

“Indeed. We have other houses we must speak to as well,” said the mistress. Both of them were cold and formal, and even their servants seemed to be keeping a polite distance.

Maomao glanced to the side.

“Aren’t there any snacks?” the freak strategist begged, rubbing his belly.

“Master Lakan, please be patient just a little longer,” Erfan said to him.

Lahan wilted, his glasses clouding over.

“Hey,” Maomao said, giving him a nudge. “Didn’t you say they were going to be in your debt by the end of these negotiations?”

If the Shin didn’t owe Lahan anything, then there would be no fixing Yao’s problem.

“I know! Believe me, I know...” Lahan was practically tearing his hair out. Not a beautiful thing to do at all, but he seemed to be reaching the end of his rope.

This is no good.

Maomao pondered what to do for a moment, then decided to go back to the banquet.

When she returned to the banquet hall, she found the La table in quite a bit of commotion. Lahan’s Brother, with Yao and En’en standing behind him, was arguing with a man she didn’t recognize.

“I told you, I have business with Yao. Not with 
you
,” the man was saying.

“Watch your tone! My name is—”

“Yao! You must come meet my family!” the man said, shoving past Lahan’s Brother and trying to take Yao’s hand. The two remaining bodyguards glared at him, but the man wasn’t intimidated.

An instant after she saw what was going on, Maomao realized who the man must be.

So that’s Mister Love Letters.

It was true that he didn’t seem like someone with a sharp sense of how to read other people. She didn’t want to get anywhere near him.

“What exactly are you doing?” Lahan asked, intervening. He probably would rather have stayed out of it, but he’d at least worked himself up enough to say something.

“Isn’t it obvious?” the man replied. Lahan’s arrival had only added to the number of not-very-threatening-looking men there, and Mister Love Letters barely gave him the time of day.

You know what would help right now?

Their bug repellent, the freak strategist. But he was nowhere to be found. Instead he was waylaying the servants carrying plates of food and relieving their trays of any fruit. Erfan could do nothing but watch helplessly.

This is hopeless.

Maomao was just trying to decide what to do when help appeared.

“
What
 are you doing?” demanded a clear, carrying voice. It was the Shin mistress.

“Great Aunt! It’s been such a long time,” Mister Love Letters said, bowing his head. Great Aun t? So he wasn’t her direct descendant, but must be from some branch of the Shin clan.

“Spare me the pleasantries. First you arrive late, and now you appear to be arguing about something. What, pray tell, is it?”

He was late? Maomao thought. More fool her to have let her guard down when Yao had said earlier that Mister Love Letters wasn’t there.

“I wasn’t late, I promise. I was just speaking with like-minded friends!”

A likely story—and in Maomao’s experience, the kind of person who could say that sort of thing without a trace of embarrassment was usually best avoided.

“More importantly, my dear great aunt, there’s a girl I’d like you to meet. This one, right here.” With his eyes sparkling, Mister Love Letters introduced Yao to the mistress. “Her name is Yao, and although she doesn’t come from one of the named clans, she’s Vice Minister Lu’s niece. A family more than fit to furnish a bride for our clan, don’t you think?”

The scary part was that Mister Love Letters said all this without a hint of doubt or hesitation. The aide and the grandson, who had accompanied the mistress, looked away. They might be family, but they knew perfectly well that Mister Love Letters was not comporting himself with common decency.

“And does this young lady agree to this match?” the mistress asked—looking not at her great nephew, but at Yao.

“This young man speaks only for himself. I have no interest in getting married yet,” Yao said firmly. Most well-bred young ladies would have cowered and demurred at a moment like that; Yao’s ability to say exactly what she was thinking was both a strength and a weakness.

“It doesn’t matter what she thinks. If the families are a good match for each other, then it’s a discussion between parents. That’s how it works with women, isn’t it?” Mister Love Letters said.

Yao scowled at that, and En’en looked like she might pull a concealed weapon out of her robe. Mister Love Letters had turned out to be exactly the kind of man Yao hated most.

However, most marriages in Li worked just the way he said. Commoners might be one thing, but Yao, a young lady from a good family, could generally expect to have her opinion in such matters ignored.

Even at that, though, Mister Love Letters’s logic didn’t quite hold.

He specifically tried to get at her when her parents weren’t around!

“I’ve heard about you. I heard that you tried to talk to this young lady precisely when her guardian, her uncle, wasn’t here. That’s a dirty trick no matter how you slice it.”

Thankfully for Maomao, Lahan’s Brother voiced her thoughts exactly. He’d probably been shielding Yao and En’en this entire time. Lahan might have simply foisted the job on him, but he would see it through to the end. His inherent human decency was showing.

“She has a mother, doesn’t she?” Mister Love Letters snapped.

“A mother? Seeing as you aren’t interested in a woman’s opinions, I don’t think I can imagine you showing the least respect to a prospect’s mother,” Lahan’s Brother replied.

Yes! You tell him!

Maomao didn’t want to get involved, so she stood at a safe distance and only cheered privately.

“Outsiders should keep quiet,” said Mister Love Letters. Lahan’s Brother might be in the right, but this conversation was obviously going in circles.

“It seems to me like this proposal has hardly gotten off the ground,” the mistress said, openly annoyed. “If you want to introduce this young lady to me, do things in the proper order. Without the agreement of both families, there can be no marriage.”

Perhaps Mister Love Letters was known as an uncouth fellow even among the Shin, for even his family members regarded him with disdain.

“But Yao’s father has already passed. From the perspective of her and her mother, what possible reason could they have for being dissatisfied with her becoming my wife?”

Maomao felt the bile rise in her throat at the young man’s unabashed willingness to be self-contradictory. Even Lahan, whose face made it clear he didn’t want to be involved with Yao, looked at the young man contemptuously.

He’s probably thinking that this guy goes about things in an un-beautiful way. Lahan cherished his own convictions, and was merciless toward those who didn’t adhere to them.

Then Lahan laughed: “Heh heh heh heh heh!”

“What’s so funny?!” Mister Love Letters demanded.

“Oh, nothing. I was just thinking, that’s just what a loser of a man 
would
 say.”

“What did you call me?!” Mister Love Letters snarled. That was understandable, but for some reason Lahan’s Brother looked equally peeved. Lahan seemed to have upset someone who wasn’t even involved.

The guards were at Lahan’s side in an instant, but he held up a hand. “You keep going on about family and heritage. Indeed, the Shin clan is a most storied household even among the named clans, hardly to be compared with a family of such slight history as the La. However...” Lahan somehow seemed to look down on Mister Love Letters despite being shorter than him. “I myself am still hardly more than a servant, run ragged by every department at court. Your household being what it is, and you having such bursting confidence as to demand Vice Minister Lu’s niece as your bride, your name must be known far and wide. But if I may most respectfully beg your pardon, my own knowledge falls short. Might I humbly request your name?”

Yikes! He’s laying it on pretty thick.

Lahan was a sharp man. He would remember the name of anyone he could do business with, even if they were from some other department.

“This guy talks a lot about being in a named family, but he himself doesn’t seem to have received a name. Not that I’m one to talk,” Lahan’s Brother said. Then, seemingly wounded by his own comment, he pressed his hand to his forehead.

Mister Love Letters went red in the face and rounded on Lahan’s Brother. “Wh-What did you say?! You’re making fun of me because of a name?!”

He’s more upset about not having the family name than he is about being called a loser.

Mister Love Letters changed targets completely from Lahan to Lahan’s Brother.

“Do you know who I am?!”

Well, no. That’s sort of what we were saying.

Mister Love Letters clenched his fist and made to take a swing at Lahan’s Brother, but the guards got between them. It was reassuring to know they could be counted on to do their jobs.

“That is quite enough!” the mistress said, her voice clear and firm.

“But they’ve 
shamed
 me!”

“They’ve only told the truth!” the mistress replied, merciless. It was obvious what she meant: He was the one shaming their family, and it was time to stop.

“What’s going on over here?” asked a familiar voice. Maomao turned to find the Ma siblings, Basen and Maamei.

Our little corner is packed with colorful characters now, huh?

Maomao quietly took a bite of some of the food on the table. Lahan likewise sat down and started munching away. It didn’t seem to bother him that Mister Love Letters had turned his anger on his brother. What a stand-up guy.

“Does there seem to be some sort of disagreement?” asked Maamei. She acted intent on playing the kindhearted third party, but her eyes were those of a predator that had spotted prey.

Makes me think of Empress Gyokuyou. The Empress’s eyes sparkled with curiosity whenever there was any sort of incident, case, or escapade afoot. There was no topic she enjoyed more than someone else’s arguments.

Since Mister Love Letters had seen that even the mistress was no ally of his, he seemed intent on bringing the newcomers around. “This man here has cast shame on me. The Ma are a martial clan. You must understand what has to happen now, yes?”

Evidently this man had a nodding acquaintance with Basen. Maomao wouldn’t have gone so far as to call them friends, since Basen obviously didn’t think like this guy did. Probably colleagues and nothing more.

“Yes. A duel,” Basen said, utterly serious.

“A... A duel?!” cried Yao. “Isn’t that hopelessly barbaric?” She looked from Lahan’s Brother to Basen.

“If both parties have witnesses, then it’s legal. There’s even a practice field right nearby,” he said. Always a muscle brain at moments like this.

Yet again Lahan’s Brother found himself drawn into the strangest of happenstances, but both Lahan and Basen looked calm. Maomao decided to remain an observer for the time being.

When Basen brought up the duel, Mister Love Letters finally started to smile. In fact, he was practically triumphant. “A duel! Yes, that will settle things. Anyway, you make fun of me, but who are you ? You sit at the La table like you belong here, but I’ve certainly never seen you before.”

Well, of course he hadn’t. Lahan’s Brother was usually out in some farming village planting potatoes. He didn’t serve at court.

Yao stepped forward protectively. “This man has nothing to do with this. He’s just a simple farmer!”

That’s, uh, going to backfire in this case.

Maomao’s rejoinder remained entirely in her head; her mouth was full of meat skewer. She was savoring perfectly seasoned, tender meat.

“A farmer? A yeoman ?” Mister Love Letters’s smile got even bigger. “So you’re a farmer! Who knows what you’re doing at this table? I guess it only goes to show that the La really are a collection of true eccentrics.”

“Now, that’s not very nice. He does grow excellent potatoes,” Maomao said before she could stop herself.

The mistress seemed so exasperated that she hardly knew what to say, so her aide stepped forward instead. “Don’t be ridiculous! You are the reason you haven’t been given the name, and until you understand that, don’t think for a second that you’ll ever inherit!”

“Urk...” Mister Love Letters looked stricken. Just for a moment, Maomao thought it might all just stop right there—but then Lahan’s Brother stepped forward.

“Hold on a minute,” he said.

“Yes? What?” the aide asked.

“This man has shamed me. How can I hold my head up if I simply walk away now?”

“If that’s how you feel, then allow me to apologize on his behalf.” The aide knew how to behave himself. He was about to bow, but Lahan’s Brother shook his head.

“This man is the one who mocked me. There’s no call for you to apologize. How about we settle this, here and now? If he beats me, the La clan will refrain from saying anything further about his marriage. But if I win, he’s to give up on Miss Yao on the spot.”

“I like it! There’s a real man for you!” said Mister Love Letters, grinning again.

The aide glanced at the mistress as if to ask what they should do. Maomao, still munching on a meat skewer, looked around at everyone there. Yao was beside herself, and En’en looked nervous as well, although she was focused entirely on Yao. The mistress and her grandson both looked deeply unimpressed. Lahan seemed as calm as anything, and Basen looked on as if none of this affected him. And then there was Maamei, who, like Maomao, was taking stock of the situation.

Mister Love Letters looked like he felt he was being thoroughly mocked now that he knew Lahan’s Brother was a farmer. The real surprise was Lahan’s Brother himself, who had his shoulders back and was raring for a fight.

“I’ll put a stop to this immediately,” the mistress offered, but Lahan declined.

“No, don’t worry about them,” he said. “He seems to be something of a handful even for the Shin clan, and whether he wins or loses here, it’s actually no skin off the nose of the La.”

People said the La was a collection of freaks and eccentrics. Whatever they did, people would just think that they were at it again.

Wonder how this one’s going to turn out
, Maomao thought.

Meanwhile, the freak strategist was snoring away in a corner of the banquet hall.

What a useless old fart.

Wasn’t there a proverb in some country somewhere that said that fires and fights were as good as fireworks? Sure enough, it was hardly surprising when a crowd of spectators showed up.

Understandably, the scene moved from the banquet hall to the courtyard, where there was a plaza that could pass for a dueling ground. The spectators surrounded it on all sides.

“I sure didn’t expect this. It’s the Shin and the La this time, huh?” someone said.

“The La seem to produce folks with a lot of different talents. Maybe that guy is a born warrior?”

Maomao could hear everything they said. And whereas the younger crowd bustled excitedly, the older folks watched with detachment. A scuffle between families wasn’t particularly unusual.