What followed was much the same as what had gone before: Lahan’s Brother was hard-pressed, and Mister Love Letters did all the attacking.

“What’re you doin’?!” somebody in the crowd shouted.

“He’s just running away!” said someone else.

“Hurry up and finish him!” yelled a third.

There were a lot of young voices among the peanut gallery. From the way Mister Love Letters tossed them a leering grin, Maomao suspected some of them were his friends.

Lahan’s Brother continued his purely defensive maneuvers, refusing to give up his challenge no matter how many times he got hit. Mister Love Letters, meanwhile, pressed the attack relentlessly.

The freak strategist watched it all intently. Lahan, too, was following closely. “I’m starting to think my brother might be more dangerous than he looks,” he commented.

“He might not be dangerous, but he’s encountered plenty of danger in his time,” said Maomao. “But what makes you say that?”

“The numbers of his movements haven’t changed at all throughout the fight, whereas his opponent’s numbers are dropping steadily.”

By that, he probably meant that he didn’t see any fatigue in his brother’s movements, while Mister Love Letters was starting to look tired.

“Now that you mention it, that hideous lout doesn’t seem as excited as he did earlier,” remarked En’en. It wasn’t that Mister Love Letters was actually what you would call ugly—just that to En’en, he must have been as disgusting as the most terrible ghoul.

Then, abruptly, the roles reversed.

Mister Love Letters started to panic, and that, combined with his fatigue, caused the attacks he leveled at Lahan’s Brother to become wilder and wilder. It wasn’t lost on Lahan’s Brother, who sprang forward, thrusting with his staff. As Lahan’s Brother’s weapon buried itself in his opponent’s side, Mister Love Letters bent in half with a sort of choking gasp. Spittle burst from his mouth and he flew through the air.

Okay, maybe not quite 
flew
. But the fact that it felt like he had made clear just how powerful Lahan’s Brother’s blow had been.

Mister Love Letters lay on his side on the ground; he foamed at the mouth but was still conscious.

“Do you want to continue the duel?” the referee called to him.

“I... I’m not b-beaten yet...”

Mister Love Letters hadn’t let go of his weapon, but he coughed furiously, spewing more spit. Maomao had to admit she’d been ever so slightly wrong about him: He had more guts than she’d given him credit for.

“All right, well, let’s keep going then.” Lahan’s Brother took up a farmer-esque fighting stance. It was roughly the same one he might have used to hoe potatoes.

“Listen up, farmer man! Just because you got one hit on me, don’t let it go to your head. I’ll give you twenty blows—thirty—as many as it takes to bring you down!” Mister Love Letters wiped at his mouth.

“Sure. By all means, don’t hold back. I might not be able to withstand a hundred of your blows, but thirty I can take. I think I could probably land at least five more hits on you before that. I’m really glad this isn’t serious.” Lahan’s Brother looked utterly nonchalant.

“Does something about my brother seem strange to you?” Lahan asked Maomao, frowning a little. “I always knew he had a gift for enduring adversity, but his numbers are off the charts. Or rather, the numbers are ordinary—but having ordinary numbers when the situation is anything but ordinary is quite out of the ordinary, now, isn’t it?”

He’d lost Maomao by that point. “Well, Lahan’s Brother has been chased hither and yon by bugs and bandits alike,” she said. Now that she thought about it, she realized that things like what she’d done in the bandit village were just par for the course for Lahan’s Brother. It was incredible that he’d gotten back to the western capital with his life. He was nothing like the pampered son of a noble house. He had far more spirit and guts than a soldier with no actual battle experience.

“Okay, what say we keep going?” Lahan’s Brother said. He wasn’t even breathing hard. The fact that he spent all day working in the fields accounted for his stamina. This was a fearsome kind of ordinary.

Mister Love Letters got to his feet, rubbing his side—but at the prospect of Lahan’s Brother’s sheer ordinariness, he accidentally let his wooden sword slip from his fingers. On his face was an expression that said: Who the hell is this guy?

“That’s the match!” cried the referee.

Mister Love Letters didn’t have it in him to muster any more bravado.

“Brother!” Lahan was in the lead as they all piled over to Lahan’s Brother. Yao had tears in her eyes, and En’en looked apologetic.

“Thank you so much,” Yao said, bowing to him.

I guess this is the “don’t-fight-on-my-account” part , Maomao thought. If this were one of the novels she’d seen in the rear palace, this was when love would blossom.

As far as Maomao was concerned, that would be perfect. Lahan’s Brother was a much more suitable match for Yao than Lahan was. Yao was still young; there would be nothing unusual if her affections transferred from Lahan to some other man.

That would be best for Lahan as well. It would solve his concerns with Yao 
and
 introduce Lahan’s Brother to a nice young lady at the same time.

But reality wasn’t so simple.

“Lahan’s Brother, I want to check your injuries. Take off your shirt,” Maomao instructed. He’d been hit enough times; there must at least be some bruising. Maomao approached with some handmade ointment.

“H-Hey, stop that! Don’t try to strip my shirt off!” Lahan’s Brother had one eye on Yao and En’en and was a bit frantic. He must have found it embarrassing to take off his shirt in front of some young ladies. And yet in the western capital, he’d worked the fields in only his work shorts while Maomao was watching. What was the deal with the discrepancy?

“Anyway, I’m just glad I won,” he said. “It wasn’t a band of brigands, so I figured I wasn’t going to die, but it still would have looked pretty silly if I’d lost.”

“It wouldn’t have looked silly at all,” En’en assured him. “Though of course, we are profoundly grateful to you for achieving victory on our behalf.” She bowed her head deeply. En’en was normally quite severe with men, but she was genuinely grateful to Lahan’s Brother.

Seeing as he saved her young mistress from danger and all.

If En’en thought highly of him, that would dramatically improve the chances of things going well between him and Yao—or at any rate, it should have.

“I never dreamed you would do so much for my lady Yao. Truly, thank you...Master Junjie.”

“J... J-J-J...”

Lahan’s Brother was rocked by En’en’s words. They could see his entire face turn red.

Guh?
 Maomao froze.

“Is something the matter, Master Junjie?” En’en asked.

“N-No, pardon me. Ahem, er, would you say that again?”

“Of course. I’ll thank you as many times as you wish. Thank you very much.”

“No, not that part! The Junjie part!” Lahan’s Brother shouted, still beet red.

Lahan joined Maomao in a slack-jawed stare.

“It’s the name of a young man at your estate, isn’t it?” En’en said. “I know you don’t usually give your name out of consideration for him. I don’t mean to cause any confusion, but it seemed inappropriate to thank a man to whom I owe so much without using his name. Oh—do you not like people to say your name? I can call you Master Lahan’s Brother if you’d prefer.”

“No! No, that’s perfect! I’m not Lahan’s Brother—I’m Junjie!”

Lahan’s Brother was staring squarely at En’en. Wasn’t this supposed to be the part where he was staring at Yao? The flag had been tripped, but it was for the wrong person.

“You have the same first and last names,” Yao said; she appeared to be hearing his name for the first time. She somehow managed to restrain the tears that threatened to spill down her face—and the flag that had been waving in front of her and Lahan’s Brother abruptly disappeared.

Instead, a great gong sounded repeatedly within Lahan’s Brother.

Maomao turned vacantly to Lahan. “Is it just me, or did things just get more complicated...again?”

“You certainly have a sharp sense of 
other
 people’s love lives,” Lahan replied.

Maomao was no mind reader—but it was clear that at that moment, she and Lahan felt the same way. Their reaction could be summed up easily enough:

En’en, of all people?!