Then Lahan laughed: “Heh heh heh heh heh!”

“What’s so funny?!” Mister Love Letters demanded.

“Oh, nothing. I was just thinking, that’s just what a loser of a man 
would
 say.”

“What did you call me?!” Mister Love Letters snarled. That was understandable, but for some reason Lahan’s Brother looked equally peeved. Lahan seemed to have upset someone who wasn’t even involved.

The guards were at Lahan’s side in an instant, but he held up a hand. “You keep going on about family and heritage. Indeed, the Shin clan is a most storied household even among the named clans, hardly to be compared with a family of such slight history as the La. However...” Lahan somehow seemed to look down on Mister Love Letters despite being shorter than him. “I myself am still hardly more than a servant, run ragged by every department at court. Your household being what it is, and you having such bursting confidence as to demand Vice Minister Lu’s niece as your bride, your name must be known far and wide. But if I may most respectfully beg your pardon, my own knowledge falls short. Might I humbly request your name?”

Yikes! He’s laying it on pretty thick.

Lahan was a sharp man. He would remember the name of anyone he could do business with, even if they were from some other department.

“This guy talks a lot about being in a named family, but he himself doesn’t seem to have received a name. Not that I’m one to talk,” Lahan’s Brother said. Then, seemingly wounded by his own comment, he pressed his hand to his forehead.

Mister Love Letters went red in the face and rounded on Lahan’s Brother. “Wh-What did you say?! You’re making fun of me because of a name?!”

He’s more upset about not having the family name than he is about being called a loser.

Mister Love Letters changed targets completely from Lahan to Lahan’s Brother.

“Do you know who I am?!”

Well, no. That’s sort of what we were saying.

Mister Love Letters clenched his fist and made to take a swing at Lahan’s Brother, but the guards got between them. It was reassuring to know they could be counted on to do their jobs.

“That is quite enough!” the mistress said, her voice clear and firm.

“But they’ve 
shamed
 me!”

“They’ve only told the truth!” the mistress replied, merciless. It was obvious what she meant: He was the one shaming their family, and it was time to stop.

“What’s going on over here?” asked a familiar voice. Maomao turned to find the Ma siblings, Basen and Maamei.

Our little corner is packed with colorful characters now, huh?

Maomao quietly took a bite of some of the food on the table. Lahan likewise sat down and started munching away. It didn’t seem to bother him that Mister Love Letters had turned his anger on his brother. What a stand-up guy.

“Does there seem to be some sort of disagreement?” asked Maamei. She acted intent on playing the kindhearted third party, but her eyes were those of a predator that had spotted prey.

Makes me think of Empress Gyokuyou. The Empress’s eyes sparkled with curiosity whenever there was any sort of incident, case, or escapade afoot. There was no topic she enjoyed more than someone else’s arguments.

Since Mister Love Letters had seen that even the mistress was no ally of his, he seemed intent on bringing the newcomers around. “This man here has cast shame on me. The Ma are a martial clan. You must understand what has to happen now, yes?”

Evidently this man had a nodding acquaintance with Basen. Maomao wouldn’t have gone so far as to call them friends, since Basen obviously didn’t think like this guy did. Probably colleagues and nothing more.

“Yes. A duel,” Basen said, utterly serious.

“A... A duel?!” cried Yao. “Isn’t that hopelessly barbaric?” She looked from Lahan’s Brother to Basen.

“If both parties have witnesses, then it’s legal. There’s even a practice field right nearby,” he said. Always a muscle brain at moments like this.

Yet again Lahan’s Brother found himself drawn into the strangest of happenstances, but both Lahan and Basen looked calm. Maomao decided to remain an observer for the time being.

When Basen brought up the duel, Mister Love Letters finally started to smile. In fact, he was practically triumphant. “A duel! Yes, that will settle things. Anyway, you make fun of me, but who are you ? You sit at the La table like you belong here, but I’ve certainly never seen you before.”

Well, of course he hadn’t. Lahan’s Brother was usually out in some farming village planting potatoes. He didn’t serve at court.

Yao stepped forward protectively. “This man has nothing to do with this. He’s just a simple farmer!”

That’s, uh, going to backfire in this case.

Maomao’s rejoinder remained entirely in her head; her mouth was full of meat skewer. She was savoring perfectly seasoned, tender meat.

“A farmer? A yeoman ?” Mister Love Letters’s smile got even bigger. “So you’re a farmer! Who knows what you’re doing at this table? I guess it only goes to show that the La really are a collection of true eccentrics.”

“Now, that’s not very nice. He does grow excellent potatoes,” Maomao said before she could stop herself.

The mistress seemed so exasperated that she hardly knew what to say, so her aide stepped forward instead. “Don’t be ridiculous! You are the reason you haven’t been given the name, and until you understand that, don’t think for a second that you’ll ever inherit!”

“Urk...” Mister Love Letters looked stricken. Just for a moment, Maomao thought it might all just stop right there—but then Lahan’s Brother stepped forward.

“Hold on a minute,” he said.

“Yes? What?” the aide asked.

“This man has shamed me. How can I hold my head up if I simply walk away now?”

“If that’s how you feel, then allow me to apologize on his behalf.” The aide knew how to behave himself. He was about to bow, but Lahan’s Brother shook his head.

“This man is the one who mocked me. There’s no call for you to apologize. How about we settle this, here and now? If he beats me, the La clan will refrain from saying anything further about his marriage. But if I win, he’s to give up on Miss Yao on the spot.”

“I like it! There’s a real man for you!” said Mister Love Letters, grinning again.

The aide glanced at the mistress as if to ask what they should do. Maomao, still munching on a meat skewer, looked around at everyone there. Yao was beside herself, and En’en looked nervous as well, although she was focused entirely on Yao. The mistress and her grandson both looked deeply unimpressed. Lahan seemed as calm as anything, and Basen looked on as if none of this affected him. And then there was Maamei, who, like Maomao, was taking stock of the situation.

Mister Love Letters looked like he felt he was being thoroughly mocked now that he knew Lahan’s Brother was a farmer. The real surprise was Lahan’s Brother himself, who had his shoulders back and was raring for a fight.

“I’ll put a stop to this immediately,” the mistress offered, but Lahan declined.

“No, don’t worry about them,” he said. “He seems to be something of a handful even for the Shin clan, and whether he wins or loses here, it’s actually no skin off the nose of the La.”

People said the La was a collection of freaks and eccentrics. Whatever they did, people would just think that they were at it again.

Wonder how this one’s going to turn out
, Maomao thought.

Meanwhile, the freak strategist was snoring away in a corner of the banquet hall.

What a useless old fart.

Wasn’t there a proverb in some country somewhere that said that fires and fights were as good as fireworks? Sure enough, it was hardly surprising when a crowd of spectators showed up.

Understandably, the scene moved from the banquet hall to the courtyard, where there was a plaza that could pass for a dueling ground. The spectators surrounded it on all sides.

“I sure didn’t expect this. It’s the Shin and the La this time, huh?” someone said.

“The La seem to produce folks with a lot of different talents. Maybe that guy is a born warrior?”

Maomao could hear everything they said. And whereas the younger crowd bustled excitedly, the older folks watched with detachment. A scuffle between families wasn’t particularly unusual.