Maybe that’s 
why
 they have a dueling ground here
, Maomao thought. It made sense enough.

“What will you do for a weapon, Lahan’s Brother?” she asked him. “Something about the length of a hoe?”

“Why a hoe?!”

“The contest is to be conducted with wooden swords or sticks,” said Lahan, walking up carrying just those things. “Blades are forbidden.”

“The ends will be wrapped in cloth, right?” En’en asked.

“Yes,” Lahan told her. “These people are the future hope of their clans...as far as it goes. We can’t have anyone dying on us. Getting killed in a duel leaves you just as dead as getting killed anywhere else.”

“Are you going to be all right? Do you have any instruction in the sword?” Yao asked.

“I have plenty of experience of being whacked with one. My grandpa used to beat me silly with his sword. He said we were dueling, but it was really his way of meting out punishment.”

Maomao pictured Lahan’s Brother’s grandfather—she’d met him once. He’d had the freak strategist confined out of anger that the other man had taken the family headship from him. Frankly, he was not a very nice old man.

“Grandfather dearest had some measure of renown for his swordsmanship, but he wasn’t a very good teacher,” said Lahan. He spread his hands and sighed, as if they held some old memories that had come back to him. If there was anyone who did not look like a swordsman, it was Lahan.

“Truer words were never spoken. Well, that’s life,” said Lahan’s Brother. “Hey, tell me what the rules are. I assume we can’t go for the eyes or, you know, the family jewels.”

“The rules are that the fight is over when your opponent is incapacitated, or calls a halt, or when one of you lets go of your weapon. And no, you can’t go for the eyes , or...you know.”

“So even if he scores a hit on me I can keep going as long as I’m still standing?”

“You can, but I think it’s more typical to stop just short of actually injuring the other guy, so long as you show him that you’re the stronger one. You realize it hurts to get hit?” Lahan hardly sounded like this fight involved a member of his own family.

“What if you lose?” Maomao asked.

“What if I do? We never actually had anything to do with this to begin with.” Lahan’s Brother sounded cool as a cucumber, and his pronouncement was clearly audible to Yao and En’en.

He turned to them. “Miss Yao, Miss En’en. I don’t know either of you very well—but I don’t like the way that guy talks, and I think he’s wrong. That’s why I’m having myself a little duel here. It’s just my own stubbornness. I don’t intend to lose, of course, but you can see I’m no master swordsman. I’m not even a soldier. I just need you to understand that much.”

“We understand,” said Yao, fidgeting. She seemed uncharacteristically, well, girlish.

“I’m impressed you took him up on this duel, Brother, considering you’ve never been in one before. Aren’t you scared?” Lahan asked, and Maomao nodded.

“Listen here. I’ve faced starving mobs, been held up by highwaymen, and attacked by bandits. This can’t be any worse, can it? 
They
 wanted to kill me, while 
he
 can’t under the rules. It’s a real load off!”

Maomao reflected that if Lahan’s Brother turned his adventures in the western capital into a book, it would probably be a bestseller.

“But still, young ladies. If I do lose this fight, it’s nothing to weep about. Basen’s here—and the Ma clan would never let a guy get away with this behavior. Even if we can’t protect you, go to Basen and I’m sure he will.”

“What makes you think that?” En’en asked.

“Oh, I had a bit of a correspondence with his older brother. I haven’t talked with Basen too much, but as you can see, he doesn’t like things that aren’t aboveboard. Besides, there are a lot of powerful women in the Ma clan. A family like that must value women highly.”

Lahan’s Brother had been in the western capital. It was frankly shocking that he’d gotten along so well with Baryou, but maybe they’d bonded over talking about their younger brothers.

“He’s right. As long as the Ma are here, our failure won’t amount to anything. And I’ll say a few words in the ear of the Shin mistress, just for good measure,” said Lahan.

“Huh! And here I thought you weren’t about to get involved,” Maomao said, mocking Lahan for no good reason.

“Doing what you’ve been asked to do is part of what it means to be a grown-up.”

“A grown-up. Sure...” Maomao looked to the freak strategist. She was sure he’d been asleep just a few minutes ago, but somehow he now had a prime seat by the courtyard that would serve as the dueling ground.

“Maomao!” he called. “Come over here and let’s watch together!”

Erfan had been obliged to bring out a table and chairs. It turned out it wasn’t just the freak’s direct subordinates like Onsou and Rikuson who had to babysit him.

“There you have it. You don’t have to get too upset over whether I win or not. In fact, don’t pay it any mind at all.” Lahan’s Brother took up a wooden staff roughly the length of a hoe and turned to the plaza.

Maomao and the others sat in the chairs Erfan had brought out. The Ma clan would be serving as referee—a thirty-something man Maomao didn’t recognize stood poised to judge the match. Maamei waved at him.

Basen and several other men formed a circle around Lahan’s Brother and Mister Love Letters, ready to intervene if anything happened.

Lahan’s Brother stood with his stick at the ready, while Mister Love Letters held a wooden sword.

“The Shin are usually versed in swordsmanship, you see,” Lahan said, nibbling on some fruit. Maomao grabbed a cherry, herself.

“It looks like Lahan’s Brother’s weapon has the advantage in reach,” Yao said, studying the pair of them.

“It’s starting,” Maomao said.

The referee raised a hand. Lahan’s Brother dropped into a fighting stance as best he knew how; he did a passable impression. Mister Love Letters, meanwhile, took a firm, assured posture, as befitted a soldier and the son of a military household.

“Begin!”

The moment the referee’s hand dropped, Mister Love Letters made his move, lunging forward. Lahan’s Brother’s wooden staff met Mister Love Letters’s wooden sword; Lahan’s Brother let the staff tilt to one side so that the sword would slide off it, and fell back.

Maomao didn’t know much about sword fighting and all that, but it looked to her like Lahan’s Brother was being overwhelmed. He kept falling back, working his way around the circle.

“Is he okay?” Yao asked Lahan, worried.

“Search me. I’m not the man you want to go to about the martial arts.” He hardly sounded invested in the matter—although it was true: It was a mistake to ask Lahan about anything military.

“You’re just asking the wrong way, Yao. Hey, round-glasses, what numbers do you see?” Maomao demanded.

“Consider this an amateur’s opinion, but I can’t help thinking that my brother is surprisingly suited for the martial arts. I see no wasted numbers. Meanwhile, his opponent’s movements are very precise. A true son of a military family—he’s at least had the basics pounded into him.”

“In other words, Lahan’s Brother is going to lose.”

“Maomao!” Yao cried. “Don’t say that. It’s bad luck.”

The fact remained, however, that Lahan’s Brother was fighting a purely defensive battle, finding no chance to attack. And if he ever did, then eventually one of Mister Love Letters’s blows was going to land.

“Eek!”

The wooden sword struck Lahan’s Brother in the stomach; he bent double and skidded backward, leaving a streak in the dust but keeping his feet.

“Ha ha ha! Looks like you can lead a farmer to the dueling ground, but he still won’t know how to fight. Go back to your farm and find some dirt to plow,” said Mister Love Letters.

“What’s wrong with being a farmer?” Lahan’s Brother snapped, bringing his stick up again.

“Don’t act tough.”

“Sorry. I make a filthy living.” Lahan’s Brother sounded completely normal; there was no fear or panic in his voice. He talked exactly like he always did.

“Hmm! This is surprisingly interesting,” the freak strategist whispered, snack crumbs cascading from his mouth. Behind his monocle, greasy with fingerprints, his fox-like eyes tracked the two men as they moved.

What followed was much the same as what had gone before: Lahan’s Brother was hard-pressed, and Mister Love Letters did all the attacking.

“What’re you doin’?!” somebody in the crowd shouted.

“He’s just running away!” said someone else.

“Hurry up and finish him!” yelled a third.

There were a lot of young voices among the peanut gallery. From the way Mister Love Letters tossed them a leering grin, Maomao suspected some of them were his friends.

Lahan’s Brother continued his purely defensive maneuvers, refusing to give up his challenge no matter how many times he got hit. Mister Love Letters, meanwhile, pressed the attack relentlessly.

The freak strategist watched it all intently. Lahan, too, was following closely. “I’m starting to think my brother might be more dangerous than he looks,” he commented.

“He might not be dangerous, but he’s encountered plenty of danger in his time,” said Maomao. “But what makes you say that?”

“The numbers of his movements haven’t changed at all throughout the fight, whereas his opponent’s numbers are dropping steadily.”

By that, he probably meant that he didn’t see any fatigue in his brother’s movements, while Mister Love Letters was starting to look tired.

“Now that you mention it, that hideous lout doesn’t seem as excited as he did earlier,” remarked En’en. It wasn’t that Mister Love Letters was actually what you would call ugly—just that to En’en, he must have been as disgusting as the most terrible ghoul.

Then, abruptly, the roles reversed.

Mister Love Letters started to panic, and that, combined with his fatigue, caused the attacks he leveled at Lahan’s Brother to become wilder and wilder. It wasn’t lost on Lahan’s Brother, who sprang forward, thrusting with his staff. As Lahan’s Brother’s weapon buried itself in his opponent’s side, Mister Love Letters bent in half with a sort of choking gasp. Spittle burst from his mouth and he flew through the air.

Okay, maybe not quite 
flew
. But the fact that it felt like he had made clear just how powerful Lahan’s Brother’s blow had been.

Mister Love Letters lay on his side on the ground; he foamed at the mouth but was still conscious.

“Do you want to continue the duel?” the referee called to him.

“I... I’m not b-beaten yet...”

Mister Love Letters hadn’t let go of his weapon, but he coughed furiously, spewing more spit. Maomao had to admit she’d been ever so slightly wrong about him: He had more guts than she’d given him credit for.

“All right, well, let’s keep going then.” Lahan’s Brother took up a farmer-esque fighting stance. It was roughly the same one he might have used to hoe potatoes.

“Listen up, farmer man! Just because you got one hit on me, don’t let it go to your head. I’ll give you twenty blows—thirty—as many as it takes to bring you down!” Mister Love Letters wiped at his mouth.

“Sure. By all means, don’t hold back. I might not be able to withstand a hundred of your blows, but thirty I can take. I think I could probably land at least five more hits on you before that. I’m really glad this isn’t serious.” Lahan’s Brother looked utterly nonchalant.

“Does something about my brother seem strange to you?” Lahan asked Maomao, frowning a little. “I always knew he had a gift for enduring adversity, but his numbers are off the charts. Or rather, the numbers are ordinary—but having ordinary numbers when the situation is anything but ordinary is quite out of the ordinary, now, isn’t it?”

He’d lost Maomao by that point. “Well, Lahan’s Brother has been chased hither and yon by bugs and bandits alike,” she said. Now that she thought about it, she realized that things like what she’d done in the bandit village were just par for the course for Lahan’s Brother. It was incredible that he’d gotten back to the western capital with his life. He was nothing like the pampered son of a noble house. He had far more spirit and guts than a soldier with no actual battle experience.

“Okay, what say we keep going?” Lahan’s Brother said. He wasn’t even breathing hard. The fact that he spent all day working in the fields accounted for his stamina. This was a fearsome kind of ordinary.

Mister Love Letters got to his feet, rubbing his side—but at the prospect of Lahan’s Brother’s sheer ordinariness, he accidentally let his wooden sword slip from his fingers. On his face was an expression that said: Who the hell is this guy?

“That’s the match!” cried the referee.

Mister Love Letters didn’t have it in him to muster any more bravado.

“Brother!” Lahan was in the lead as they all piled over to Lahan’s Brother. Yao had tears in her eyes, and En’en looked apologetic.

“Thank you so much,” Yao said, bowing to him.

I guess this is the “don’t-fight-on-my-account” part , Maomao thought. If this were one of the novels she’d seen in the rear palace, this was when love would blossom.

As far as Maomao was concerned, that would be perfect. Lahan’s Brother was a much more suitable match for Yao than Lahan was. Yao was still young; there would be nothing unusual if her affections transferred from Lahan to some other man.

That would be best for Lahan as well. It would solve his concerns with Yao 
and
 introduce Lahan’s Brother to a nice young lady at the same time.

But reality wasn’t so simple.

“Lahan’s Brother, I want to check your injuries. Take off your shirt,” Maomao instructed. He’d been hit enough times; there must at least be some bruising. Maomao approached with some handmade ointment.

“H-Hey, stop that! Don’t try to strip my shirt off!” Lahan’s Brother had one eye on Yao and En’en and was a bit frantic. He must have found it embarrassing to take off his shirt in front of some young ladies. And yet in the western capital, he’d worked the fields in only his work shorts while Maomao was watching. What was the deal with the discrepancy?

“Anyway, I’m just glad I won,” he said. “It wasn’t a band of brigands, so I figured I wasn’t going to die, but it still would have looked pretty silly if I’d lost.”

“It wouldn’t have looked silly at all,” En’en assured him. “Though of course, we are profoundly grateful to you for achieving victory on our behalf.” She bowed her head deeply. En’en was normally quite severe with men, but she was genuinely grateful to Lahan’s Brother.

Seeing as he saved her young mistress from danger and all.

If En’en thought highly of him, that would dramatically improve the chances of things going well between him and Yao—or at any rate, it should have.

“I never dreamed you would do so much for my lady Yao. Truly, thank you...Master Junjie.”

“J... J-J-J...”

Lahan’s Brother was rocked by En’en’s words. They could see his entire face turn red.

Guh?
 Maomao froze.

“Is something the matter, Master Junjie?” En’en asked.

“N-No, pardon me. Ahem, er, would you say that again?”

“Of course. I’ll thank you as many times as you wish. Thank you very much.”

“No, not that part! The Junjie part!” Lahan’s Brother shouted, still beet red.

Lahan joined Maomao in a slack-jawed stare.

“It’s the name of a young man at your estate, isn’t it?” En’en said. “I know you don’t usually give your name out of consideration for him. I don’t mean to cause any confusion, but it seemed inappropriate to thank a man to whom I owe so much without using his name. Oh—do you not like people to say your name? I can call you Master Lahan’s Brother if you’d prefer.”

“No! No, that’s perfect! I’m not Lahan’s Brother—I’m Junjie!”

Lahan’s Brother was staring squarely at En’en. Wasn’t this supposed to be the part where he was staring at Yao? The flag had been tripped, but it was for the wrong person.

“You have the same first and last names,” Yao said; she appeared to be hearing his name for the first time. She somehow managed to restrain the tears that threatened to spill down her face—and the flag that had been waving in front of her and Lahan’s Brother abruptly disappeared.

Instead, a great gong sounded repeatedly within Lahan’s Brother.

Maomao turned vacantly to Lahan. “Is it just me, or did things just get more complicated...again?”

“You certainly have a sharp sense of 
other
 people’s love lives,” Lahan replied.

Maomao was no mind reader—but it was clear that at that moment, she and Lahan felt the same way. Their reaction could be summed up easily enough:

En’en, of all people?!