The generosity he had shown the Shin clan was nowhere to be seen. The leader of the U clan was a man of character, but it was clear that he had scant sympathy for those who had tormented his granddaughter for so long. He’d lost all faith in his son-in-law and his children.

Then again, maybe this 
is
 the generous response.

Maomao didn’t know how many members of the U clan there were, only that there were a lot more of them than of the La. The collapse of a household could leave dozens or even hundreds of people out on the street. The leader of the U clan had taken the headship back from his son-in-law and returned to his original position—but it must have been a tremendous effort for a man of his age to attempt to right the listing ship of his family. Ujun was probably just lucky he hadn’t been chased out of his house. He claimed that his sister felt bad for what she had done, but she also wasn’t struggling to put food in her mouth.

“I’m sorry you had to see that,” the old man said. His nurse wiped his sweat away, while the child wandered up and offered him a drink. Only Ujun just stood there, smirking. He almost seemed like a clown, Maomao thought.

“Normally I’d have booted them out of the family and that would have been the end of it, but Lishu begged me in her letters not to be too hard on that man.”

That man
: presumably, Lishu’s father. Bringing Ujun here was, probably, a way of teaching him a lesson.

I guess you could call it spiteful, in its own way.

But then, what Lishu’s father had done to her was far worse. Ujun might not have been the immediate cause of Lishu’s sufferings, but nonetheless he was lucky that this was the harshest “lesson” he would be taught. Above all, Ujun seemed accustomed to humiliation—and there were times when it was easier to get by in life if you didn’t have too inflated an opinion of yourself.

Ujun was reaping what he had sown, yet at the same time one could sympathize with him. Not that Maomao was going to stick her neck out for him. There were some things even a man of character couldn’t abide. It wasn’t her place to make pretty arguments and tell him not to take it out on the young man.

“May I continue?” she asked the U patriarch.

“Please.”

“Thank you. But having said that, I really have nothing more to say.” The old man wouldn’t feel any better hearing more tales of Lishu’s misfortune. “The one thing I can say with certainty is that Lady Lishu’s loss of her position as consort, and her eviction from the rear palace, were no fault of her own. Further, I believe His Majesty the Emperor deliberately distanced her from the rear palace for her own benefit. I think it’s safe to believe that Lady Lishu still has a future.”

The old man pressed a hand that seemed to be shaking slightly to his forehead. “But she wrote to me that she was doing her duty as a high consort...”

“I’m sure she didn’t want to worry her grandfather, sir.”

“If only I had noticed. I 
should
 have noticed.”

The old U man appeared angry with himself for having left Lishu to her own devices for so long. At this point, he could not punish the ladies-in-waiting who had tormented her—although they’d probably been dealt with when Lishu was put out of the rear palace. No doubt they had been drummed out as well, shamed by their dishonorable dismissal. It might even impact their marriage prospects.

Is this really what we want?

Maomao, as instructed, had sat at the same table as the U patriarch and told him about Lishu. She’d spoken of how Basen had rescued the young lady, and had made clear that Lishu bore no blame for what had happened. She could pass the conversation back to Maamei now and be fully satisfied that she had done her job. Yet Maamei was looking at her as if to say You’ve got a little more in you, haven’t you?

Come on, you’re asking the impossible! Maomao thought. But she’d developed a reputation for taking on the impossible.

“So Lady Lishu wrote in her letters that she was fulfilling the duties of a high consort?” Maomao asked.

“Yes, she did.”

“She must have pushed herself so hard,” Maomao said, her voice deliberately soft.

“Pushed herself? How so?”

The leader of the U leaned forward with a concerned look on his face, his beard swaying with the movement.

“Surely, sir, I don’t need to tell you what a consort’s duty in the rear palace is...”

She glanced at Basen. At first he didn’t appear to understand what she was talking about, but then he blinked a few times and seemed to get it. He went red again, but not from anger this time. It was embarrassment and not a little bit of distress.

A consort’s duty is, of course, to bear the Emperor’s children.

Empress Gyokuyou and Consort Lihua had done it. Even Shisui—or rather, Loulan—had at least given the appearance of doing it. Only one high consort had gone without any nocturnal visits from His Majesty: Lishu.

“The Emperor treated Lady Lishu like a daughter. He never once visited her chambers, and she was never his bedmate.”

Maomao shook her head slowly. This gave her a chance to spot Maamei, who was smiling in a way Maomao took to indicate satisfaction. Basen, too, looked deeply relieved, if somewhat surprised.

“Otherwise, His Majesty would never have allowed her out of the rear palace,” Maomao added.

Typically, those who had slept with the Emperor, even for just a single night, had to live out the rest of their lives in the rear palace. Ah-Duo was a special exception, but even she resided in one of the Emperor’s villas. It was clear that she was still under his protection.

The leader of the U seemed to accept that. “I wondered if it might be so.”

“Yes, sir,” Maomao said with a long sigh. “I hear that many consorts who leave the rear palace without having been known by the Emperor find new marriages.”

It would be easy to mock such women as rejects, but not when it came to the Emperor. Whether she was the daughter of an official or a merchant, service in the rear palace raised a woman’s stock. Many were drawn to the mysterious garden that was the rear palace. Not to mention that being chosen as a consort amounted to official validation of a woman’s beauty and the quality of her family.

“If Lady Lishu hadn’t retired to a temple, I should think she would have a great many suitors,” Maomao said.

“Is it selfish,” the old man asked, “to wish to see my granddaughter again in my short remaining time?”

Perfect!

Now Maomao looked at Maamei: There’s nothing more I can do , she said with her eyes. Maamei had the look of a hawk in her own eyes, but was clearly happy. She raised her hand. “Might I ask a question?”

“Yes?” the patriarch said.

“Is Lady Lishu’s seclusion to be without end?”

“Lishu was told only to recuperate for a while.”

“A while, sir?”

“Those were the words.”

“Meaning that if His Majesty so ordered, she would be able to leave her temple?” Maamei sounded like she had secured a promise. “Might Lady Lishu not return to the U clan and take a husband? She’s your last remaining direct descendant, isn’t she?”

“So she is. My only grandchild, by my only daughter.”

Ujun looked away. He, too, was a victim, Maomao thought, hemmed in by his status as the son-in-law’s bastard child, not a direct descendant. If his father hadn’t had to marry into another clan, he might have led a less constricted life.

“However, I won’t let what happened to my daughter happen to Lishu. I’ve already picked this child as my successor. There will be no more unhappy marriages.” The U patriarch patted the head of the young boy, who was eating his snack. It was the boy Ujun had been looking after this whole time.

“Then you wouldn’t object if the Ma clan brought a proposal for Lady Lishu?” Maamei said, broaching the real subject at last. Basen bit his lip so hard it turned purple.

“The Ma clan has a proposal for us?”

“Yes, sir. If Lady Lishu were going to succeed to the main household, she would need to marry a son of one of the branch families. But if she isn’t, then I’d like to introduce her to someone from my own family.”

“Hoh.” The old man glanced at Basen—he’d realized immediately who Maamei was talking about. “I did once hope to establish marital ties with the Ma. However...”

However?

“There’s no point in you establishing ties with us. The U clan has nothing like its former power. A proposal from some other clan I might understand, but the Ma have nothing to gain by this union. And I hesitate to take at face value a match that seems to offer no benefit to the other party.”

“I believe I saw you talking to the Shin clan earlier,” Maamei said. “May I take it that your enmity with them is at an end?”

Maomao wasn’t sure whether Maamei knew more than she let on—or if she was just making an educated guess. Either way, Maomao privately implored the leader of the U to understand that she had not said anything.

“Much has passed between me and the Shin, but I can’t imagine what it has to do with you.”

“Of course, of course. Perhaps you would hear us out on the matter of Lady Lishu, however, if we said our proposal is quite unrelated to your family’s status?”

“You mean it’s Lishu herself that you want?” The U patriarch gave Maamei and Basen an appraising look. He clearly regretted having stuck his daughter with a worthless husband. “I grant, I’d been considering a few candidates, in case Lishu ever got married.”

Maamei pressed ahead. “Would you be so kind as to consider the Ma among them?” Her methods bordered on impertinent, but the leader of the U would see that it wasn’t a bad idea—indeed, it should be quite attractive to him.

He refused to nod his head, however.

“At the moment she’s not marrying anyone. I don’t know where there might be enemies. My family was weakened by my own misjudgment—but some things have happened that my oversight alone can’t explain. I almost feel like I’m being punished for ignoring Lishu’s plight.”

“How so, sir?”

“Ha ha ha! You ask me to speak even further of my family’s humiliations? Well, so be it. Gaoshun’s daughter is a woman of sharp intuition, and I suspect you know already. It seems the new faction in the army doesn’t like me much at all.”

That was all he said on the matter.

The new faction in the army?

That subject sounded oddly familiar.

“I’d like to resolve this issue before this child succeeds, while I still live.” The leader of the U seemed to be whipping his old bones along. “Now, I think it’s about time to be getting back to the banquet.”

His nurse started rolling his wheeled chair away.

“Thank you for hearing me out, sir,” Maamei said. Apparently she wasn’t going to pursue the subject any further today. She bowed her head deeply and simply watched as the leader of the U clan was wheeled away.

When the members of the U clan were at last out of sight, Maomao felt a wave of fatigue wash over her.

Phew!

She let her shoulders slump.

“I knew I could count on you, Maomao. You did a perfect job.” Maamei was full of praise, but Maomao found she couldn’t quite take it at face value.

“Maybe, but the leader of the U didn’t seem that eager.”

“It’s better than nothing. We’ve planted a seed. We’ll just have to see whether anything grows from it.”

Her husband watched her, smiling to see his wife so engaged. As for her younger brother, he was even more overwhelmed than Maomao and hadn’t managed to reboot himself yet.

“I’d like to take this opportunity to excuse myself. I trust that’s all right?” Maomao said.

“Heavens, of course. You must be exhausted. I thought you were used to this kind of thing.” Maamei must really have been pleased, because in place of the polite smile she’d worn earlier, there was a genuine grin.

“Suddenly discovering information I never knew before has a way of tiring me out,” Maomao said.

“Ahh, you mean the talk of the betrothal between the U and Ma clans? It’s nothing special. When boys and girls are close in age, that sort of chatter always comes up.”

“I admit, it sounds common enough.”

And yet, such stories particularly seemed to abound among Maomao’s acquaintances. Just being in the orbit of the Imperial family made human relationships more complicated.

Lishu’s mother was childhood friends with His Majesty and Lady Ah-Duo both.

It shouldn’t have surprised her that the Emperor’s minder, Gaoshun, had found himself running in that circle.

I think it’s time for a change of subject.

“You know, I haven’t seen Miss Chue today,” said Maomao.

“Miss Chue had other work to do. Oh, how she dragged her feet—but when she was told this job absolutely had to be done, she went to work.”

Maomao and the others walked at an easy pace as they spoke. The two men brought up the rear, neither of them saying anything. Maamei’s husband really was the silent type.

“Miss Chue may look like—well, Miss Chue. But she does have a genuine gift for languages, and even with a useless limb or two, she’ll be quite helpful so long as her head and her mouth still work.”

Maomao understood that Maamei was saying she valued Chue, but it seemed a rather uncharitable way to say it.

“Is she interpreting for some foreigners or something?” Maomao asked, purely out of curiosity—but it was the wrong choice.

“She is. We’ve got a whole heap of them all together in prison at the moment, and she’s keeping a close ear on them to make sure they aren’t hatching some plot together.”

“My goodness.” That didn’t sound like fun for anyone.

It wasn’t unusual for foreigners to be captured along the Li border. Most of them were bandits or the like, and were dealt with promptly and lethally. If they’d been taken prisoner instead, it implied that there were people of some rank among them.

“Miss Chue may not be able to use her right hand, but it doesn’t seem to have impacted her ability to do her job,” said Maomao.

“Not at all—but I think she’ll have to give up her position as the Moon Prince’s lady-in-waiting. I presume my mother will take the post instead. It is so terribly hard to find good help.”

“You’re telling me. Lady Suiren works people to the bone.”

Maamei’s mother Taomei was no pushover herself, of course. But to survive under Suiren’s watch, a woman probably had to be either extraordinarily capable or at least as sanguine as Chue was.

“Almost anyone else would have retired by Lady Suiren’s age. Not to mention that considering her position, it’s not really right, the way she dotes on the Moon Prince.”

“Her position?” Maomao echoed.

“You don’t know who Lady Suiren is, Maomao?”

“I heard she was a legendary lady-in-waiting who defended the young Empress Dowager when she had no one else to protect her.”

It sounded like a description out of a stage play.

“She was that. Lady-in-waiting and wet nurse both. The young Empress Dowager was unable to produce enough milk for her child, so Lady Suiren even nursed the Emperor.”

“Lady-in-waiting and wet nurse,” Maomao repeated. She’d heard that Suiren had been not only Jinshi’s wet nurse, but His Majesty’s as well. Despite the expression, however, a wet nurse didn’t necessarily nurse a child, and Maomao had assumed Suiren had merely looked after them.

“I’d been told Master Gaoshun was a milk sibling of theirs, and I just assumed it was his mother who had nursed them,” Maomao said.

“My grandmother did serve as a wet nurse, but she was assigned to His Majesty after he was already weaned.”

“Wha?”

Hold on a second.

That would mean there should be one more milk sibling. Typically, a woman didn’t produce milk without bearing a child herself, and stopped lactating when the child got older. So Lady Suiren must have had a child roughly the Emperor’s age.

“Is it possible Lady Suiren is Lady Ah-Duo’s mother?” Maomao asked with a perplexed tilt of her head.

“So she is. You didn’t know?” Maamei tilted her head right back.

“Okay, wait, hang on. They’re nothing like each other, are they?”

Suiren was so grandmotherly at first glance, and Ah-Duo was slim and well-built. They couldn’t have resembled each other less.

“I’ve heard Lady Ah-Duo takes after her father.” Maamei stopped walking, lest they arrive at the banquet hall before they were finished with their conversation.

“Hang on, wait, whoa. But Lady Ah-Duo and Lady Suiren 
act
 completely different!”

Maomao had never seen them specifically interact, but Maomao had the impression that Suiren treated Ah-Duo less like a daughter than like a noble who ranked far above her.

“Lady Suiren comes from common stock, and ever since Lady Ah-Duo was chosen as a consort, she’s been scrupulous about respecting decorum toward her. Which would be one reason why she would never have told you about their relationship herself.”

“Then how was I supposed to know?!”

Maomao couldn’t help reflecting on the clothing she’d been given to wear when she had gone out on the town—it had belonged to Suiren’s daughter.

I can’t imagine Lady Ah-Duo ever wearing an outfit like that!

It might explain why Suiren had seemed to take such pleasure in dressing Maomao up—her own daughter hadn’t been so amenable to it.

Which leaves the question of Jinshi.

It was partly Maomao’s fault for not asking about Suiren’s daughter, but it was also Jinshi’s for not saying anything. Then again, maybe Jinshi thought Suiren had told her.

Maomao felt her head beginning to spin. Yes, relationships surrounding the Imperial family were complicated indeed—complicated and obnoxious.

“So Lady Suiren became a wet nurse even though she was a commoner,” Maomao said. Repeating what she had heard was her way of trying to organize the information in her head.

“That’s right. Lady Suiren’s husband passed while she was pregnant, and she went back to her home before the succession could become an issue. It doesn’t sound like her parents were very caring; almost as soon as Lady Ah-Duo was born, they sent Lady Suiren to serve in the rear palace, to get a little extra coin out of her.”

“As soon as she’d given birth?”

That was terrible. A woman needed time to recover after a delivery.

“Indeed. The rear palace at the time was obsessed with producing children at any cost, you see. Back then, a woman with childbearing experience was valued highly and treated accordingly.” Almost the opposite of the way things were now.

It was all the fault of the former emperor, with his penchant for very young girls; of course no children were being born.

“Thanks to that, Lady Suiren discovered Lady Anshi, who was concealing her pregnancy at the time, and became her lady-in-waiting.”

It turned out this legendary attendant had a suitably epic origin story.

“But would the mother of an Imperial consort normally be assigned as wet nurse to the Emperor’s younger brother?”

Would a ruler send his own consort’s mother to nurse someone who could one day cause a succession crisis?

“It was a rather unique situation, I must say. But assigning the same nursemaid to siblings from the same mother is nothing unusual in itself.”

That was true, Maomao granted.

“The strange thing about it was how far apart in age His Majesty and the Moon Prince were, and that His Majesty chose his own milk sibling Lady Ah-Duo as a consort.”

Maomao agreed; that was strange.

“Many members of the Ma clan across the generations have become Imperial milk siblings, but that never guarantees them a particular role. And they never become consorts.”

This was to ensure that they didn’t become Imperial family members and find too much power concentrated in their hands. Now that she thought about it, Maomao realized she had never heard Basen or Gaoshun referred to by any specific job title when she was with them. It only made her realize how unique Ah-Duo’s position was.

Then again, Jinshi’s position was even more unique—Maomao struggled not to let the realization show on her face.

“Empress Gyokuyou’s young prince, the current heir apparent, is guarded by my husband and another member of our clan. When Consort Lihua’s child leaves the rear palace, I expect at least one more of our number will be assigned to him.”

“The Moon Prince seems to keep much of the Ma clan to himself,” Maomao observed, as dispassionately as she could.

“Yes; because he was heir apparent for so many years, he naturally found himself on quite familiar terms with us. Now, what do you say we get back to the banquet?”

Was that really the only factor? Maomao wondered, but she decided not to think too hard about it. She was more concerned about whether any further trouble had started at the banquet hall in their absence.