Within the Ma clan, Maamei was a leader, but maybe other clans wouldn’t see it that way when it came time to talk to them. Better to have someone socially superior interpose. Her husband was a convenient fig leaf.

I would have said Basen could play that part.

Then again, she wasn’t sure Basen could muster a proper greeting for the U clan. Even now, he was standing practically frozen.

“Bakin is my name, sir.”

Not likely to remember that
, Maomao thought, positioning herself behind Maamei.

“This is my wife, Maamei, and my brother-in-law, Basen. And this is...”

“Maomao, sir. My apologies for earlier.” She tried to make her greeting as inoffensive as possible.

“Oh, heavens. Earlier was simply... Well, I may have my qualms about it, but—yes, well, some qualms, yes...”

Apparently the old man had a lot of qualms, but he avoided being specific so as not to give away the matter of the Shin heirloom. Maomao hoped that he would at least be kind enough to forget how she had kicked the freak strategist.

“So, what does the Ma clan want with me? And with a La girl in tow?”

It wasn’t just the U patriarch; the other occupants of the pavilion likewise looked askance at them.

Maamei stepped forward. “Maomao here served two years in the rear palace.”

“The rear palace...”

Roughly two years , thought Maomao. There’d been a fair amount of coming and going during that time, so her actual tenure had been a bit shorter. But there was no real need to go into the details now.

“It was an opportunity for her to deepen her friendship with Lady Lishu.”

I don’t think I would have called our friendship deep.

Once again, for the sake of the flow of conversation, she kept this thought to herself.

“I believe you corresponded with Lady Lishu by letter, sir. However, she was so concerned not to worry anyone that I don’t doubt she put a brave face on things on the page. Maomao so wishes you could hear what her life has really been like.”

Maamei spoke like a distraught maiden, her eyes brimming with tears. If Maomao hadn’t known what she was really like, she would have been utterly convinced.

“Mm... Perhaps, but if so, wouldn’t earlier have been opportunity enough for that?”

Maomao agreed completely. There was no need for the Ma clan to get involved.

“My father’s name is Gaoshun,” Maamei said. “He was a milk sibling of His Majesty.”

“Gaoshun... Ah, yes, him. I heard he changed his name, became a eunuch, and entered the rear palace.”

Apparently the leader of the U clan was familiar with Gaoshun—and judging by his tone, seemed to have known him for quite a long time.

“Yes, sir. My father served as the Moon Prince’s bodyguard. And he was ever so sympathetic to Lady Lishu. Lady Lishu may be an U princess, but she’s also the daughter of an old friend of His Majesty and my father. If my father hadn’t been charged with the solemn duty of defending the Imperial family, I don’t doubt he would have objected vocally to Lady Lishu’s unhappy situation.”

What a show!

Maomao was legitimately impressed by Maamei’s performance. She didn’t know if it was strictly true or not, but she couldn’t say for sure that it wasn’t. When she’d told Gaoshun about the torment Lishu endured, he had indeed looked very conflicted. That might have been partially concerning as someone whose job was to oversee the rear palace, but perhaps there had also been some concern for a friend’s daughter.

“Most of all, I hear that at one point there was talk of marriage between my father and Lady Lishu’s mother. When I think of that girl, knowing she might have been my own sister, I feel like my heart could break!”

That was some bombshell to drop so casually.

“Ah... Ahhhhhh...” Basen stood with his jaw hanging open. Evidently this was news to him. In order to get him over his shock, Maamei whacked him in the side—where the U couldn’t see, of course. Another blow that only Basen could have endured. If he had been Lahan, he’d have broken clean in half.

“The talk of marriage with the Ma was just a passing suggestion. Think nothing of it.”

“Of course, sir.”

The leader of the U dismissed the issue without special concern. For people in good families, talk of marriage came and went with some frequency.

“As for the tale of my granddaughter—now, that I think I might like to hear,” the patriarch said.

“But of course.” Maamei bowed her head demurely, but it was Maomao who would be doing the talking.

“I first met Lady Lishu at a garden party,” Maomao said, beginning the story of her time in the rear palace. She stepped up to the round stone table and asked one of the servants to make her some tea.

Maomao avoided going into all the little details, but she told the old man about how she had served Empress Gyokuyou, and how that connection had led her to make the acquaintance of Lishu, who at the time was a high consort.

“At the garden party, she wore an outfit that was distinctly out of place.”

The leader of the U frowned, and the young man with him averted his eyes, continuing to play with the child instead.

“The meal had been changed for one with blueback, which Lady Lishu could not eat. Someone did it as a prank; I examined her arm when it broke out in hives.”

“Maomao has some medical knowledge,” Maamei interjected. “In fact, she’s working in the medical office right now.”

The leader of the U knitted his brow. His nurse watched his expression carefully; the young man gave some fruit to the boy.

“Among other things, at a tea party, she was served a drink with honey, and no one told her. They tried to get her to drink it.”

At this, the leader of the U heaved a sigh. It was clear with how much care he had raised the frail Lishu when she was younger.

I guess this is a pretty depressing story.

Maomao was less concerned about the leader, however, than she was about the man beside her. Basen was grinding his teeth audibly, and his eyes were bloodshot. Maomao could hear his breath whistling through his nose.

Is he going to be okay?

She worried, but Maamei stood beside Basen, keeping a firm grip on his belt so that he couldn’t go rushing off. Her husband was watching him closely too—Maamei had probably brought Ba-whatever-it-was in part so that he could be there to stop Basen if there was any trouble.

“She got a new chief lady-in-waiting, who served her well,” Maomao said. The former chief lady-in-waiting and the rest of Lishu’s women, unfortunately, had remained unchanged. They would find excuses to steal Lishu’s possessions—they even took her mirror, her cherished memento of her mother.

“Her mirror? 
That
 mirror?” the clan leader asked.

“Yes, sir. The one in which Lady Lishu could see her mother’s face.”

At the time, Lishu said she’d seen a ghost in the bathing area of her residence at the rear palace. It turned out to be just a curtain on which the mirror had projected the image of her mother, but Lishu hadn’t realized that, and Maomao vividly remembered her showing up at the great bath in a state of terror.

She decided there was no need to add how, on that occasion, she’d given Lishu a full-body hair-removal treatment.

She talked about her first trip to the western capital. At the time, she never would have dreamed she would ever go back, let alone that she would stay for a whole year.

“And Lady Lishu was attacked by a lion at the banquet.”

It was supposed to be a function for Jinshi to find a wife; the lion was there for entertainment and had broken out of its cage.

“A lion! That fool only told me that there had been ‘some trouble,’” the old U man said, clenching his fists. A vein pulsed in his forehead, and his nurse anxiously wiped his sweat away with a cloth. The young man hustled the boy a bit farther away, apparently not wanting him to see the enraged clan leader.

“The one who rescued her that day was this young man, Master Basen.” Maomao’s introduction of the lion-slayer, the hero of the hour, was quick and breezy. Basen, who had been about to explode, jumped when he heard his name.

“You saved my granddaughter?” the leader asked.

“O-Oh, it was nothing, sir. I only did what anyone would do.”

Maomao glowered at this uninspired display of modesty.

The old man looks like he’s about to pop. I guess that’s enough unhappy stories for now. Even though there are plenty more I could tell...

Maomao was ready to give up the upsetting narrative, but then—

“It’s such a terrible shame that Lady Lishu’s unhappiness turned out to have been orchestrated by her own father. Even the lion attack, I heard, was because of some perfume her half-sister had enticed her to wear—a smell that attracts wild animals.”

Why would you say that?!

Maomao had carefully left those details out, but Basen spilled them all.

“Call Jun,” said the leader of the U in a low growl. His beard was quivering, and his eyes were starting to go bloodshot.

His nurse gave a quick bow of her head, then went to summon the young man who was minding the boy. “What do you need?” he asked with a polite bow.

“I told you to tell me 
everything
 your little sister did, hiding nothing. Why did you keep this from me?”

His little sister? Maomao recalled belatedly that Lishu had a half-brother as well as a half-sister. This young man, Jun, was the former consort’s older half-brother.

“My sister has repented of causing harm to Lady Lishu and won’t appear on the public stage in the future. I can only beg you to be merciful, sir.”

Jun’s words sounded polite enough, but he had said one thing he should have avoided.

“What do you mean, she won’t appear on the public stage?! Lishu is a nun now! And whose fault is that?”

“My father, Uryuu; myself, Ujun; and my sister, sir.” The young man named Jun listed off the names quickly and easily.

“Who said you could use the character 
U
?”

“My apologies, sir,” Jun said, bowing deeply again.

“You’ll accept my punishment for making such a mess of Lishu’s life.”

“Of course, sir.”

“Now get away from me.”

Maomao’s heart was pounding—she’d almost thought the old man was going to hit Jun. As it happened, however, he had more forbearance than that.