“Ha ha ha! You ask me to speak even further of my family’s humiliations? Well, so be it. Gaoshun’s daughter is a woman of sharp intuition, and I suspect you know already. It seems the new faction in the army doesn’t like me much at all.”

That subject sounded oddly familiar.

“I’d like to resolve this issue before this child succeeds, while I still live.” The leader of the U seemed to be whipping his old bones along. “Now, I think it’s about time to be getting back to the banquet.”

His nurse started rolling his wheeled chair away.

“Thank you for hearing me out, sir,” Maamei said. Apparently she wasn’t going to pursue the subject any further today. She bowed her head deeply and simply watched as the leader of the U clan was wheeled away.

When the members of the U clan were at last out of sight, Maomao felt a wave of fatigue wash over her.

Phew!

She let her shoulders slump.

“I knew I could count on you, Maomao. You did a perfect job.” Maamei was full of praise, but Maomao found she couldn’t quite take it at face value.

“Maybe, but the leader of the U didn’t seem that eager.”

“It’s better than nothing. We’ve planted a seed. We’ll just have to see whether anything grows from it.”

Her husband watched her, smiling to see his wife so engaged. As for her younger brother, he was even more overwhelmed than Maomao and hadn’t managed to reboot himself yet.

“I’d like to take this opportunity to excuse myself. I trust that’s all right?” Maomao said.

“Heavens, of course. You must be exhausted. I thought you were used to this kind of thing.” Maamei must really have been pleased, because in place of the polite smile she’d worn earlier, there was a genuine grin.

“Suddenly discovering information I never knew before has a way of tiring me out,” Maomao said.

“Ahh, you mean the talk of the betrothal between the U and Ma clans? It’s nothing special. When boys and girls are close in age, that sort of chatter always comes up.”

“I admit, it sounds common enough.”

And yet, such stories particularly seemed to abound among Maomao’s acquaintances. Just being in the orbit of the Imperial family made human relationships more complicated.

Lishu’s mother was childhood friends with His Majesty and Lady Ah-Duo both.

It shouldn’t have surprised her that the Emperor’s minder, Gaoshun, had found himself running in that circle.

I think it’s time for a change of subject.

“You know, I haven’t seen Miss Chue today,” said Maomao.

“Miss Chue had other work to do. Oh, how she dragged her feet—but when she was told this job absolutely had to be done, she went to work.”

Maomao and the others walked at an easy pace as they spoke. The two men brought up the rear, neither of them saying anything. Maamei’s husband really was the silent type.

“Miss Chue may look like—well, Miss Chue. But she does have a genuine gift for languages, and even with a useless limb or two, she’ll be quite helpful so long as her head and her mouth still work.”

Maomao understood that Maamei was saying she valued Chue, but it seemed a rather uncharitable way to say it.

“Is she interpreting for some foreigners or something?” Maomao asked, purely out of curiosity—but it was the wrong choice.

“She is. We’ve got a whole heap of them all together in prison at the moment, and she’s keeping a close ear on them to make sure they aren’t hatching some plot together.”

“My goodness.” That didn’t sound like fun for anyone.

It wasn’t unusual for foreigners to be captured along the Li border. Most of them were bandits or the like, and were dealt with promptly and lethally. If they’d been taken prisoner instead, it implied that there were people of some rank among them.

“Miss Chue may not be able to use her right hand, but it doesn’t seem to have impacted her ability to do her job,” said Maomao.

“Not at all—but I think she’ll have to give up her position as the Moon Prince’s lady-in-waiting. I presume my mother will take the post instead. It is so terribly hard to find good help.”

“You’re telling me. Lady Suiren works people to the bone.”

Maamei’s mother Taomei was no pushover herself, of course. But to survive under Suiren’s watch, a woman probably had to be either extraordinarily capable or at least as sanguine as Chue was.

“Almost anyone else would have retired by Lady Suiren’s age. Not to mention that considering her position, it’s not really right, the way she dotes on the Moon Prince.”

“Her position?” Maomao echoed.

“You don’t know who Lady Suiren is, Maomao?”

“I heard she was a legendary lady-in-waiting who defended the young Empress Dowager when she had no one else to protect her.”

It sounded like a description out of a stage play.

“She was that. Lady-in-waiting and wet nurse both. The young Empress Dowager was unable to produce enough milk for her child, so Lady Suiren even nursed the Emperor.”

“Lady-in-waiting and wet nurse,” Maomao repeated. She’d heard that Suiren had been not only Jinshi’s wet nurse, but His Majesty’s as well. Despite the expression, however, a wet nurse didn’t necessarily nurse a child, and Maomao had assumed Suiren had merely looked after them.

“I’d been told Master Gaoshun was a milk sibling of theirs, and I just assumed it was his mother who had nursed them,” Maomao said.

“My grandmother did serve as a wet nurse, but she was assigned to His Majesty after he was already weaned.”

“Wha?”

Hold on a second.

That would mean there should be one more milk sibling. Typically, a woman didn’t produce milk without bearing a child herself, and stopped lactating when the child got older. So Lady Suiren must have had a child roughly the Emperor’s age.

“Is it possible Lady Suiren is Lady Ah-Duo’s mother?” Maomao asked with a perplexed tilt of her head.

“So she is. You didn’t know?” Maamei tilted her head right back.

“Okay, wait, hang on. They’re nothing like each other, are they?”

Suiren was so grandmotherly at first glance, and Ah-Duo was slim and well-built. They couldn’t have resembled each other less.

“I’ve heard Lady Ah-Duo takes after her father.” Maamei stopped walking, lest they arrive at the banquet hall before they were finished with their conversation.

“Hang on, wait, whoa. But Lady Ah-Duo and Lady Suiren 
act
 completely different!”

Maomao had never seen them specifically interact, but Maomao had the impression that Suiren treated Ah-Duo less like a daughter than like a noble who ranked far above her.

“Lady Suiren comes from common stock, and ever since Lady Ah-Duo was chosen as a consort, she’s been scrupulous about respecting decorum toward her. Which would be one reason why she would never have told you about their relationship herself.”

“Then how was I supposed to know?!”

Maomao couldn’t help reflecting on the clothing she’d been given to wear when she had gone out on the town—it had belonged to Suiren’s daughter.

I can’t imagine Lady Ah-Duo ever wearing an outfit like that!

It might explain why Suiren had seemed to take such pleasure in dressing Maomao up—her own daughter hadn’t been so amenable to it.

Which leaves the question of Jinshi.

It was partly Maomao’s fault for not asking about Suiren’s daughter, but it was also Jinshi’s for not saying anything. Then again, maybe Jinshi thought Suiren had told her.

Maomao felt her head beginning to spin. Yes, relationships surrounding the Imperial family were complicated indeed—complicated and obnoxious.

“So Lady Suiren became a wet nurse even though she was a commoner,” Maomao said. Repeating what she had heard was her way of trying to organize the information in her head.

“That’s right. Lady Suiren’s husband passed while she was pregnant, and she went back to her home before the succession could become an issue. It doesn’t sound like her parents were very caring; almost as soon as Lady Ah-Duo was born, they sent Lady Suiren to serve in the rear palace, to get a little extra coin out of her.”

“As soon as she’d given birth?”

That was terrible. A woman needed time to recover after a delivery.

“Indeed. The rear palace at the time was obsessed with producing children at any cost, you see. Back then, a woman with childbearing experience was valued highly and treated accordingly.” Almost the opposite of the way things were now.

It was all the fault of the former emperor, with his penchant for very young girls; of course no children were being born.

“Thanks to that, Lady Suiren discovered Lady Anshi, who was concealing her pregnancy at the time, and became her lady-in-waiting.”

It turned out this legendary attendant had a suitably epic origin story.

“But would the mother of an Imperial consort normally be assigned as wet nurse to the Emperor’s younger brother?”

Would a ruler send his own consort’s mother to nurse someone who could one day cause a succession crisis?

“It was a rather unique situation, I must say. But assigning the same nursemaid to siblings from the same mother is nothing unusual in itself.”

That was true, Maomao granted.

“The strange thing about it was how far apart in age His Majesty and the Moon Prince were, and that His Majesty chose his own milk sibling Lady Ah-Duo as a consort.”

Maomao agreed; that was strange.

“Many members of the Ma clan across the generations have become Imperial milk siblings, but that never guarantees them a particular role. And they never become consorts.”

This was to ensure that they didn’t become Imperial family members and find too much power concentrated in their hands. Now that she thought about it, Maomao realized she had never heard Basen or Gaoshun referred to by any specific job title when she was with them. It only made her realize how unique Ah-Duo’s position was.

Then again, Jinshi’s position was even more unique—Maomao struggled not to let the realization show on her face.

“Empress Gyokuyou’s young prince, the current heir apparent, is guarded by my husband and another member of our clan. When Consort Lihua’s child leaves the rear palace, I expect at least one more of our number will be assigned to him.”

“The Moon Prince seems to keep much of the Ma clan to himself,” Maomao observed, as dispassionately as she could.

“Yes; because he was heir apparent for so many years, he naturally found himself on quite familiar terms with us. Now, what do you say we get back to the banquet?”

Was that really the only factor? Maomao wondered, but she decided not to think too hard about it. She was more concerned about whether any further trouble had started at the banquet hall in their absence.