Chapter 6: The Horse and the Rabbit

The world was made of a series of farces.

As Lahan’s Brother stood there, totally smitten, Maomao pondered what to do. She wanted to cheer him on on his path of love, but when that path led to En’en—whose real focus in life was Yao—she foresaw only pain in his future.

Maybe we can bracket that conversation for now.

If a problem wasn’t going to be resolved anytime soon, Maomao preferred to just leave it alone. Her attention was taken by the fresh new problem approaching.

The Ma siblings came up to her.

“Miss Maomao,” said Maamei politely.

“It’s been a long time,” Maomao replied.

“Indeed it has.”

“Uh...has it?” Basen asked. Maamei must not have thought much of his attitude because, the smile never slipping from her face, she gave him a vicious backfist. Basen being as sturdy as he was, he didn’t even flinch, but a Lahan would have gone flying backward with blood spurting from his nose.

Behind the brother and sister stood the man who had served as referee in the duel. He looked rather discomfited by Maamei’s actions.

Maomao gave him a polite bow. “Thank you for refereeing the match.” It would not normally have been hers to say, but Lahan’s Brother only had eyes for En’en at the moment, and Lahan was once again deep in conversation with the Shin mistress.

“Think nothing of it. It happens all the time at the meetings of the named. There are plenty of young gentlemen here with a high opinion of their own strength, and the Ma clan frequently referees.”

Maomao found something suspicious in the way Maamei hoh-hoh-hoh-hoh ’ed. “Say, Maomao,” she said. “I saw you leaving a room with the U clan earlier. Something going on?”

She doesn’t miss a thing, does she?

The fact that she didn’t mention that the Shin clan had been with them implied she had some business with the U.

“We served as...you might say go-betweens. Which isn’t to say that I have any special influence with the U clan, so please be aware of that.” She didn’t share any details, but she was telling the truth. Maamei would know that it would be uncouth to pry.

“Yes, of course. I won’t ask what you were talking about—but do they really owe you nothing at all for what you did?” Maamei had that predatory light in her eyes.

“If I told you that freak was one of the go-betweens, would that give you a pretty good idea?”

Maomao was telling Maamei, in a roundabout way, that the freak strategist had turned it all topsy-turvy. He must have been concerned about Lahan’s Brother, because he was poking him assiduously.

“Ahh... Yes, I see. Things didn’t seem that grim between you, though.” Even as Maamei appeared to accept Maomao’s explanation, she still gave her a searching glance.

“You might say we came out even.”

“But you must be closer to them than to complete strangers.” Maamei smiled and took Maomao’s hand. “Won’t you come with me for a moment?”

What does she want from me now?

Maomao thought maybe Maamei had mistaken 
come with
 for 
manhandle
.

“Going somewhere, Little Sister?” Lahan asked, finally noticing the Ma siblings. He was looking especially well, probably because he had succeeded in putting the Shin mistress in his debt.

“Ah, Master Lahan. I’m just borrowing your dear little sister for a moment.”

Maomao didn’t know whether Lahan and Maamei knew each other; she couldn’t remember. But she was sure that someone as sharp as Maamei knew the names and faces of all the sons of the named clans.

Lahan began working his mental abacus immediately. “A member of the Ma clan? But of course.” He must have figured it couldn’t hurt to have Basen and his sister—with their connection to Jinshi—in his debt.

The U clan and the Ma siblings?

The combination suggested something to do with Lishu—and in that case, Maomao would be happy enough to help. She didn’t like, though, that she would be giving Lahan more face while she did it. As her small measure of revenge she pointed to the freak strategist and said, “ You do something about him.”

“All right, Maomao. This way, please.” Maomao followed Maamei, who walked off smiling.

Maamei led Maomao to another garden, not the one where the duel had taken place. There were barren peony trees and rows of daffodils—this must have been the winter garden.

As they walked, Maamei introduced the middle-aged man with her. “Forgive me for waiting so long to introduce you. This is my husband.”

“I’m Maamei’s husband,” he said.

“My brother-in-law,” said Basen.

So it turned out the man who had refereed the duel was Maamei’s husband. It seemed like one person was enough to explain that—but all three of them helpfully clarified it. The man didn’t give his name, but Maomao had no confidence that she would remember a trivial detail like that, so it didn’t matter to her. Presumably he was Mister Ba-something-or-other.

Maamei’s husband was a well-built man with an air of simplicity. He looked like the quiet but considerate type; in fact, he reminded her of Gaoshun. She wondered if all the wives in the Ma clan wore the pants in their respective relationships.

“I apologize for my wife imposing on you,” Maamei’s husband said.

“Not at all.”

The way he was polite even to those socially below him was just like Gaoshun. Gaoshun claimed that his daughter despised him, but Maomao was starting to think that wasn’t quite the case.

“Are you not going to ask anything about what our business with the U clan is?” Maamei inquired, somewhat belatedly.

Maomao decided that she’d had enough of euphemism and indirectness. “I assume you want to introduce Master Basen, considering he’s obsessed with Lady Lishu.”

“Wha wha wha whaaa!” Basen exclaimed, plainly panicked. He went redder than a cooked shrimp.

“That’s exactly it,” said Maamei. “This boy was so retiring, I worried he might never get married. It was so bad that we had to force his feeble brother Baryou to have children instead. Who would have dreamed he would fall in love with a former high consort?”

“L-Love?! L-L-Love, Sister?!”

“Oh, you don’t like her?”

“Th-That’s not what I’m saying!” Basen said, much too loudly. At that volume, even if they went to one of the private rooms, the conversation wouldn’t stay private for long. They would have been better off staying in this unseasonal garden, where they seemed to be the only people around.

“You know about Lady Lishu, of course, don’t you, Maomao?” said Maamei.

“Yes, ma’am. I know her as someone to whom Heaven has not given many blessings of good fortune—especially when it comes to family relations. I’ve heard that she’s currently a nun.”

As far as Maomao could see, neither Lishu’s father nor her half-sister were particularly nice people. Her grandfather seemed to buck the trend, but it didn’t change the fact that his granddaughter had come to grief because he had trusted his son-in-law.

“All true. Lady Lishu is still just eighteen years old. Even if she lived to be only fifty, that would be a great many long years to spend sequestered away in a temple. If you were a grandfather with any hint of a heart, wouldn’t it sadden you?” Maamei almost made it sound like a riddle.

“The patriarch of the U clan seems like a compassionate man. Assuming there are no political motivations involved, I think an appeal to his sympathy could be very valuable,” Maomao said, drawing on what she had seen of the old man at his meeting with the Shin.

This appeared to be precisely what Maamei had wanted to hear. “My thoughts exactly.” Basen’s eyes were likewise sparkling. Maamei’s husband stayed quiet. It wasn’t clear to Maomao why he was even with them.

“Having said that,” Maomao went on, “Lady Lishu has been married to two emperors, and has retired to a nunnery both times. It’s rather unusual, if I may say so. If His Majesty doesn’t call for her, I’m not sure I see a future for her.”

“No need to worry on that score. His Majesty thinks of Lady Lishu like a daughter. As long as we have the barest excuse, I don’t think it will be hard to get him on our side. In fact, insofar as Lady Lishu isn’t His Majesty’s blood relative, there’s somewhat more flexibility than there would be with an actual daughter.”

An actual daughter, huh...

It was a cruel thing, Maomao thought. A princess, a true daughter of the emperor, was destined to be a political tool simply by virtue of her blood. She thought of how the Emperor doted on Princess Lingli. However His Majesty might love her, in the future he would have to use her as a political pawn.

“We’d like to talk to the U about the matter, but truth be told, there’s no one in our generation who’s very close to them.”

“I’m afraid I’m not really acquainted with them myself. Wait... Does this mean you don’t have an appointment to speak with them?”

That annoyed Maomao. Evidently Maamei’s preparations weren’t as thorough as Lahan’s.

“The former head of the U—or no, I suppose he’s the current head again. Anyway, he’s always cherished finding a quiet moment in the winter garden that his only daughter loved so much in life.”

“Are you sure it’s all right to intrude on his solitude?”

Making the other party upset would not, in Maomao’s opinion, be a promising start to negotiations.

“If we don’t intrude, then there’s no problem. You’ve known Lady Lishu for a long time, right, Maomao?” Maamei took her hand and walked ahead at a stiff pace.

In a pavilion among the peony trees, they could see a group of figures.

“There he is.”

There was an old man, a middle-aged woman who served as his nurse, a young man, and a child. The child was a boy, maybe ten years old, and the young man was looking after him. The old man was indeed the leader of the U clan.

Not even any bodyguards? Careless
, Maomao thought.

Maamei patted her clothes and hair to neaten them, gently touched up her lipstick, and then meandered up to the pavilion as if it were the most natural thing in the world. The predatory gleam in her eyes was somewhat obscured by the way they half closed as she smiled. It was a tremendous show of feigned innocence, even if she was doing it purely so as not to scare the child.

“Pardon me.”

It was not Maamei who stepped forward first, but her husband.

Is this why she brought him along?

Within the Ma clan, Maamei was a leader, but maybe other clans wouldn’t see it that way when it came time to talk to them. Better to have someone socially superior interpose. Her husband was a convenient fig leaf.

I would have said Basen could play that part.

Then again, she wasn’t sure Basen could muster a proper greeting for the U clan. Even now, he was standing practically frozen.

“Well, well! The Ma clan.”

“Bakin is my name, sir.”

Not likely to remember that
, Maomao thought, positioning herself behind Maamei.

“This is my wife, Maamei, and my brother-in-law, Basen. And this is...”

“Maomao, sir. My apologies for earlier.” She tried to make her greeting as inoffensive as possible.

“Oh, heavens. Earlier was simply... Well, I may have my qualms about it, but—yes, well, some qualms, yes...”

Apparently the old man had a lot of qualms, but he avoided being specific so as not to give away the matter of the Shin heirloom. Maomao hoped that he would at least be kind enough to forget how she had kicked the freak strategist.

“So, what does the Ma clan want with me? And with a La girl in tow?”

It wasn’t just the U patriarch; the other occupants of the pavilion likewise looked askance at them.

Maamei stepped forward. “Maomao here served two years in the rear palace.”

“The rear palace...”

Roughly two years , thought Maomao. There’d been a fair amount of coming and going during that time, so her actual tenure had been a bit shorter. But there was no real need to go into the details now.

“It was an opportunity for her to deepen her friendship with Lady Lishu.”

I don’t think I would have called our friendship deep.

Once again, for the sake of the flow of conversation, she kept this thought to herself.

“I believe you corresponded with Lady Lishu by letter, sir. However, she was so concerned not to worry anyone that I don’t doubt she put a brave face on things on the page. Maomao so wishes you could hear what her life has really been like.”

Maamei spoke like a distraught maiden, her eyes brimming with tears. If Maomao hadn’t known what she was really like, she would have been utterly convinced.

“Mm... Perhaps, but if so, wouldn’t earlier have been opportunity enough for that?”

Maomao agreed completely. There was no need for the Ma clan to get involved.

“My father’s name is Gaoshun,” Maamei said. “He was a milk sibling of His Majesty.”

“Gaoshun... Ah, yes, him. I heard he changed his name, became a eunuch, and entered the rear palace.”

Apparently the leader of the U clan was familiar with Gaoshun—and judging by his tone, seemed to have known him for quite a long time.

“Yes, sir. My father served as the Moon Prince’s bodyguard. And he was ever so sympathetic to Lady Lishu. Lady Lishu may be an U princess, but she’s also the daughter of an old friend of His Majesty and my father. If my father hadn’t been charged with the solemn duty of defending the Imperial family, I don’t doubt he would have objected vocally to Lady Lishu’s unhappy situation.”

What a show!

Maomao was legitimately impressed by Maamei’s performance. She didn’t know if it was strictly true or not, but she couldn’t say for sure that it wasn’t. When she’d told Gaoshun about the torment Lishu endured, he had indeed looked very conflicted. That might have been partially concerning as someone whose job was to oversee the rear palace, but perhaps there had also been some concern for a friend’s daughter.

“Most of all, I hear that at one point there was talk of marriage between my father and Lady Lishu’s mother. When I think of that girl, knowing she might have been my own sister, I feel like my heart could break!”

That was some bombshell to drop so casually.

“Ah... Ahhhhhh...” Basen stood with his jaw hanging open. Evidently this was news to him. In order to get him over his shock, Maamei whacked him in the side—where the U couldn’t see, of course. Another blow that only Basen could have endured. If he had been Lahan, he’d have broken clean in half.

“The talk of marriage with the Ma was just a passing suggestion. Think nothing of it.”

“Of course, sir.”

The leader of the U dismissed the issue without special concern. For people in good families, talk of marriage came and went with some frequency.

“As for the tale of my granddaughter—now, that I think I might like to hear,” the patriarch said.

“But of course.” Maamei bowed her head demurely, but it was Maomao who would be doing the talking.

“I first met Lady Lishu at a garden party,” Maomao said, beginning the story of her time in the rear palace. She stepped up to the round stone table and asked one of the servants to make her some tea.

Maomao avoided going into all the little details, but she told the old man about how she had served Empress Gyokuyou, and how that connection had led her to make the acquaintance of Lishu, who at the time was a high consort.

“At the garden party, she wore an outfit that was distinctly out of place.”

The leader of the U frowned, and the young man with him averted his eyes, continuing to play with the child instead.

“The meal had been changed for one with blueback, which Lady Lishu could not eat. Someone did it as a prank; I examined her arm when it broke out in hives.”

“Maomao has some medical knowledge,” Maamei interjected. “In fact, she’s working in the medical office right now.”

The leader of the U knitted his brow. His nurse watched his expression carefully; the young man gave some fruit to the boy.

“Among other things, at a tea party, she was served a drink with honey, and no one told her. They tried to get her to drink it.”

At this, the leader of the U heaved a sigh. It was clear with how much care he had raised the frail Lishu when she was younger.

I guess this is a pretty depressing story.

Maomao was less concerned about the leader, however, than she was about the man beside her. Basen was grinding his teeth audibly, and his eyes were bloodshot. Maomao could hear his breath whistling through his nose.

Is he going to be okay?

She worried, but Maamei stood beside Basen, keeping a firm grip on his belt so that he couldn’t go rushing off. Her husband was watching him closely too—Maamei had probably brought Ba-whatever-it-was in part so that he could be there to stop Basen if there was any trouble.

“She got a new chief lady-in-waiting, who served her well,” Maomao said. The former chief lady-in-waiting and the rest of Lishu’s women, unfortunately, had remained unchanged. They would find excuses to steal Lishu’s possessions—they even took her mirror, her cherished memento of her mother.

“Her mirror? 
That
 mirror?” the clan leader asked.

“Yes, sir. The one in which Lady Lishu could see her mother’s face.”

At the time, Lishu said she’d seen a ghost in the bathing area of her residence at the rear palace. It turned out to be just a curtain on which the mirror had projected the image of her mother, but Lishu hadn’t realized that, and Maomao vividly remembered her showing up at the great bath in a state of terror.

She decided there was no need to add how, on that occasion, she’d given Lishu a full-body hair-removal treatment.

She talked about her first trip to the western capital. At the time, she never would have dreamed she would ever go back, let alone that she would stay for a whole year.

“And Lady Lishu was attacked by a lion at the banquet.”

It was supposed to be a function for Jinshi to find a wife; the lion was there for entertainment and had broken out of its cage.

“A lion! That fool only told me that there had been ‘some trouble,’” the old U man said, clenching his fists. A vein pulsed in his forehead, and his nurse anxiously wiped his sweat away with a cloth. The young man hustled the boy a bit farther away, apparently not wanting him to see the enraged clan leader.

“The one who rescued her that day was this young man, Master Basen.” Maomao’s introduction of the lion-slayer, the hero of the hour, was quick and breezy. Basen, who had been about to explode, jumped when he heard his name.

“You saved my granddaughter?” the leader asked.

“O-Oh, it was nothing, sir. I only did what anyone would do.”

Maomao glowered at this uninspired display of modesty.

The old man looks like he’s about to pop. I guess that’s enough unhappy stories for now. Even though there are plenty more I could tell...

Maomao was ready to give up the upsetting narrative, but then—

“It’s such a terrible shame that Lady Lishu’s unhappiness turned out to have been orchestrated by her own father. Even the lion attack, I heard, was because of some perfume her half-sister had enticed her to wear—a smell that attracts wild animals.”

Why would you say that?!

Maomao had carefully left those details out, but Basen spilled them all.

“Call Jun,” said the leader of the U in a low growl. His beard was quivering, and his eyes were starting to go bloodshot.

His nurse gave a quick bow of her head, then went to summon the young man who was minding the boy. “What do you need?” he asked with a polite bow.

“I told you to tell me 
everything
 your little sister did, hiding nothing. Why did you keep this from me?”

His little sister? Maomao recalled belatedly that Lishu had a half-brother as well as a half-sister. This young man, Jun, was the former consort’s older half-brother.

“My sister has repented of causing harm to Lady Lishu and won’t appear on the public stage in the future. I can only beg you to be merciful, sir.”

Jun’s words sounded polite enough, but he had said one thing he should have avoided.

“What do you mean, she won’t appear on the public stage?! Lishu is a nun now! And whose fault is that?”

“My father, Uryuu; myself, Ujun; and my sister, sir.” The young man named Jun listed off the names quickly and easily.

“Who said you could use the character 
U
?”

“My apologies, sir,” Jun said, bowing deeply again.

“You’ll accept my punishment for making such a mess of Lishu’s life.”

“Of course, sir.”

“Now get away from me.”

Maomao’s heart was pounding—she’d almost thought the old man was going to hit Jun. As it happened, however, he had more forbearance than that.