“He had a brown outfit on. I couldn’t really describe his jacket, because I only saw him from behind, and only for a second. But underneath he was wearing loose pants.”

Something very common; easy to move in. Any number of people in town might fit that description.

“He was real lean and agile too; he had muscle everywhere.”

Very much the kind of detail that Pairin, with her appetite for meatheads, would notice.

“All right. And who brought the breakfast congee?”

“One of the apprentices. It was that girl, Zulin. Even Chou-u popped his head in, since Lihaku was here.”

“Chou-u did? I haven’t even seen him.” Maomao clucked her tongue. Chou-u was a boy with a past, and temporarily in Maomao’s care—but he hadn’t deigned to show his face to her in some time. Maybe he was going through a phase.

“Speak of the devil,” Pairin said. Into the foyer came Chou-u and his little shadow, Zulin.

“Yikes!” The moment Chou-u saw Maomao, he braced himself.

After so long, it turned out the little brat wasn’t so little anymore. In fact, he was taller than Maomao now, and he had lost some of his baby fat. He didn’t have any facial hair yet, but he was now more a young man than a boy.

Zulin had come to the Verdigris House with her older sister by Maomao’s intervention. Evidently she was still attached at the hip to Chou-u. Being fed regularly had made her much plumper and prettier than when Maomao had first met her.

“Chou-u, Pairin says you brought her breakfast to her room?” Maomao said, asking Chou-u instead of Zulin because Zulin didn’t speak.

“Yeah, I did. So what? Got a problem with that?”

Maomao found herself oddly irritated by the fact that Chou-u’s eyeline was some three centimeters above hers. It was also, however, something she could do nothing about, and it was only going to get worse when he hit his growth spurt.

“That was bad-customer congee.”

“Huh?” Chou-u’s sound of befuddlement didn’t seem to be an act; confusion showed plainly on his face. “Well, I didn’t do anything to it.”

“It doesn’t change the fact that the sleeping drugs were in there,” Maomao said. Even if Chou-u had supplied the food in ignorance, she had to keep pressing him.

“Zulin, did you do something to the congee?” Chou-u asked. Zulin didn’t say anything out loud, but shook her head.

Then Chou-u clapped his hands as if he’d remembered something. “Oh, but you know, the congee was already waiting for us.”

“Waiting for you?”

Zulin nodded her silent affirmation.

“When we went to get it after the old lady told us to take it upstairs, there were a couple bowls already sitting there, so we grabbed them.”

Zulin nodded again.

“Maybe they grabbed some that was meant for another woman with a customer who’d overstayed his welcome?” Pairin suggested, squeezing Zulin’s cheeks. She’d done the same thing to Maomao when Maomao was young—Zulin just rolled with it.

It was the apprentices’ job to prepare the congee, but courtesans of middle rank and below made their own. There were customers besides Lihaku who stayed into the morning, and if they were unwelcome, some sleeping medicine in their breakfast was hardly unusual. But no one would simply leave “bad-customer congee” sitting there unattended.

“Congee’s no good after it dries out,” said Chou-u. “Serve a customer bad congee and they’ll just get mad, but if you waste congee, the old lady will. So we took the stuff that was ready.”

That was all true as far as it went. The madam was forever haranguing the courtesans and apprentices about not wasting food.

“They’re telling the truth. I’m the one who told Zulin to take the congee upstairs,” said the madam, coming into the room. “And I appreciate that they didn’t waste any. But now I want to know which good-for-nothing girl left congee sitting out!” She took a notepad out from a private desk drawer. Beside the desk stood the incense that was used to measure time. “Let’s see here. This morning we had five men stay long, not including our guest Lihaku. But none of them seem to have been bad customers.”

There were indeed six sticks of incense standing nearby, one for each of the men including Lihaku. One of the incense stands was particularly ornate—that must have belonged to Pairin, a high courtesan.

“You don’t think it’s someone whose behavior took a turn for the worse recently?” Maomao asked.

“I doubt it. Hell, see for yourself.” The madam handed her the notebook.

“I don’t know any of these names!” Not just of the customers—only two of the women were people who had been around long enough for Maomao to recognize them.

“We’re a business. We can’t keep selling the same tired old wares forever.”

“I see what you mean.”

Some women would be bought out of their contracts; others might move to other establishments. The lucky ones would be able to safely retire, but no small number of courtesans stopped working when they were laid low by illness—or death.

“Hey, Grams, you have a breakdown of the rooms on the second floor?”

“What do you want with that?”

“Just tell me.”

Maomao got the diagram from the old lady, then proceeded out to the courtyard.

“What are you doing?” the madam asked.

“I just want to see it with my own eyes.”

She moved so she was directly below Joka’s room. The madam, intrigued, followed her.

“I just figured, if he jumped out the window, there would be footprints right about here.”

“There was a rain shower two days ago.”

The ground was wet.

If he jumped from the third floor, you’d really think there would be some footprints.

But she saw nothing.

“Did anyone except Pairin see the thief?”

“Not even one of the menservants?”

“That time of the morning, there just happened not to be anyone around. But you’re right—I’ll have to make sure those holes-for-eyes take a little discipline.” The madam’s eyes glinted. It might sound harsh of her, but one of the menservants’ jobs was to keep an eye out for any courtesans trying to make a getaway. Letting a thief escape so cleanly suggested some issues with security.

“You learn anything?” Lihaku asked.

“I want to keep looking around,” Maomao replied.

“Looking at what?” asked the madam.

“The second floor, just below Joka’s room.”

The madam made no move to stop Maomao—just gave her a look that said 
Make sure you find that thief.