“Hee hee hee! She’s right, you know. I just fell on my poor bum because that thief startled me so badly.”

This new, sultry voice was Pairin, who sat in a chair as an apprentice brought her water.

“No, and because of that I haven’t provided treatment,” said Sazen, the temporary operator of the apothecary shop, popping his head in and then pulling it back out. Maomao had press-ganged him into running the place while she was at court, and she was glad to see he seemed to be doing a decent job.

“Lihaku is such a worrywart,” Pairin said, smacking her paramour on the chest.

“Aww, you know. It’s just, when I think of anything happening to you, I can’t control myself.”

“I told you there was no need to go all the way to get Maomao.”

“I really would have liked to bring Mister Luomen, but they say he’s in the rear palace, and I couldn’t trust just any old medicine man. I figured I could get the little lady at least, but they told me she was away—I was beside myself!”

Evidently Lihaku couldn’t keep his cool when it came to Pairin—but the women were right; he was a little 
too
 out of sorts.

“Hee hee hee! I thought you were gone awfully long, considering you only said you were going to get Maomao,” said Pairin.

The two of them were busy flirting, but meanwhile, Maomao, who had been dragged here as fast as a horse could gallop, didn’t know what to do. She settled for giving the besotted couple a cold stare.

“Gee, sorry I’m not good enough for you!” Sazen grumbled, this time only sticking half his head in from the apothecary shop before popping out again.

“May I go home?” Maomao asked the old madam, still scowling.

“Well, just a second. Since you’re here, take a look around and see if you can’t find any clues about our departed thief before you go.”

That was the old lady, wasting no time foisting a task on Maomao.

“You didn’t catch him?” she asked.

“He got clean away, I’m afraid.”

“Then call an official, not me.”

“Ha ha ha! A brothel appealing to the officialdom. That’s rich. You know what kind of rumors would start up?”

Maomao had to admit she was right.

“Maybe you could just take a look at my room?” This request came from Joka, who sounded deeply tired; she yawned as she spoke. Maomao’s “sister” was usually dressed to impress at all times, but today she was in sleepwear.

“At 
your
 room, Joka?” Maomao asked.

“Pairin’s room wasn’t the one the thief hit—it was mine. You’re good at finding criminals and that sort of thing, aren’t you?”

“I’ll take a look. But I’m not making any promises.”

Maomao went to Joka’s room, which was on the third floor. The higher the floor, the more important the courtesans who lived there, and the more spacious the accommodations. Joka’s room comprised three adjacent chambers.

“Yikes,” Maomao said.

“Not a pretty sight, is it?”

The place was a shambles. Every book on the bookshelf had been thrown on the floor, every desk drawer pulled out and turned upside down. The other two rooms looked just as bad.

“They even went through my clothes,” Joka said. Her silk robes had been trampled and her hair sticks scattered everywhere.

Maomao inspected the clothing, narrowing her eyes. They were wrinkled and ruffled, but for the most part not dirtied—a small blessing. One of the hair sticks must have been stepped on or something, because it was broken in pieces. Something seemed off about it—Maomao picked it up and put it in the folds of her robe.

“They’ve got some nerve, sneaking in here while I was in the bath,” Joka said. “Thanks to them, I didn’t even get a chance to change. I’ll be ‘taking tea’ tonight.”

“If it was this morning, I take it you were washing your hair?”

“Yes, I was.”

That would explain why Joka was still in her sleepwear. At the Verdigris House, the women washed their hair on a specified day, and because it required more hot water and more time than usual, they bathed first thing in the morning. The exact order in which they bathed varied, but in general the highest-ranking courtesans—and the best-selling—often went first.

“So you were in the bath. Exactly what time was it?”

“I was the first in the bath—Pairin had a customer staying extra long. It must’ve been about eight a.m. I still can’t believe it—I got my hair all nice and clean, then I thought I heard shouting, so I came back to my room only to find everything in this filthy condition. It’s terrible, just terrible.”

“Yeah, it’s a mess. And is it just me, or does something stink?” Maomao scratched her nose and went over to the window. She took a deep breath of fresh air, having been almost sickened by the cloying smell of roses in the room.

“That bastard broke a bottle of my perfume on his way out, to add insult to injury. I only had one bottle of that—a customer gave it to me. I can’t even bring myself to want to clean up.” Joka was obviously furious.

Since she was standing there already, Maomao had a look just outside the window. They might have been on the third floor, but there was a railing and other fixtures, so it wasn’t impossible that the thief had climbed up. Below them was the courtyard, still mostly deserted so early in the day.

In spite of all this, the Verdigris House’s menservants were hardly pushovers. So why had they let the thief get away?

“What did this person steal?” Maomao asked.

“My wood puzzle box. I still can’t find it.”

“What?! That thing?”

“Yes, that thing,” Joka said, even more peevish than usual. The puzzle box contained the jade tablet, the one on which she staked her living. It was very important to her, yet she seemed surprisingly calm.

“Were any of the other rooms hit?”

“Just mine,” said Joka.

Maomao put her hand to her chin. The Three Princesses were the prime earners at the Verdigris House—although now they were more like the Two Princesses, since Meimei had recently been bought out. Their rooms—or maybe the madam’s—would be obvious targets for anyone looking for loot.

“Was Pairin in her room the entire time?” Maomao asked.

“Heh! The ‘good man’ who brought you extended until noon. He’s been here a lot lately.”

Groggy, right...

“Uh-huh.”