Lihaku had been in the western capital for an entire year. Now he was using the money he’d saved during that time to come visit Pairin.

He’s not saving to buy her out?

It wasn’t easy to buy a courtesan out of her contract. You had to have the money for it, but you also had to be a regular customer or the establishment wouldn’t even entertain the idea. It was a tough balance to strike.

“Pairin’s room is right next to mine. She thought she heard something over here, and when she came to look, there was the thief. He fled through the window.”

“That’s when she got so startled she fell on her behind?” It still seemed odd to Maomao. “Pairin noticed a noise—but Lihaku didn’t?”

“He was probably asleep, don’t you think? I think the way our sister yelled when she fell woke him up, but he was probably still groggy. He went all the way to wherever you were to bring you back, Maomao. I know he’s smitten and all, but that’s a bit overboard.”

Maomao stroked her chin again. The Lihaku she knew wasn’t so easily put off his guard. If anything, in spite of how he sometimes looked, he was remarkably calm and quick-witted.

“I’m going to take a quick look in Pairin’s room,” she said.

“Fine by me.”

“I wouldn’t clean up your chambers yet,” she added as she went. She felt a little funny just walking into Pairin’s room, so first she called to the other woman downstairs. “Pairin! Mind if I have a look at your room?”

“Go ahead! I still haven’t cleaned up from last night, though!”

“That’s fine. Perfect, actually.”

With Pairin’s blessing, Maomao entered her room. It was indeed not cleaned up. There were empty wine bottles, breakfast bowls, clothing tossed everywhere, and rumpled bedsheets. The smell of perfume was accompanied by a distinct animalistic odor—but that was par for the course in a brothel, and Maomao ignored it. Instead she picked up one of the wine bottles and gave it a sniff.

Then she picked up one of the bowls of congee—there were two, one for Pairin’s breakfast and one for Lihaku’s. The food was already dry and flaky. She sniffed each of the bowls as well.

There it is!

Maomao raced downstairs, still holding the bowls.

“What’s the matter, little lady?” asked Lihaku, who was drinking tea in the foyer. The other courtesans had gone back to their rooms—it would be time to get ready for the evening soon.

“Aren’t you going home, Master Lihaku?”

“Ah, well, I figured I should stick around to finish what I started. I’ll go home tomorrow morning.”

“You really saved a lot, didn’t you?” Maomao said, nudging him with her elbow.

“Oh, stop,” he said, but he didn’t exactly look unhappy.

“Hee hee hee! I guess I can look forward to another night,” said Pairin, draping herself over him.

“Ha ha ha ha!” he laughed. She would be draining him dry for a second night in a row.

“On that note, did you eat your breakfast here?” Maomao asked.

“From these bowls?”

“We sure did. What about them?”

Maomao put the bowls down and looked intently at Lihaku. “How was the congee? Tasty?”

“It was great—lots of ingredients today. The Verdigris House sure knows how to treat its visitors.”

“He liked it so much that he even ate mine!” Pairin said.

“That would explain it,” Maomao said, folding her arms.

“That would explain what?”

“Master Lihaku, you felt very tired after breakfast, didn’t you?”

“I sure did.”

“He ought to! We spent the whole night 
exercising
.” Pairin nudged Lihaku in the chest. Maomao had not been fishing for innuendo.

“In the western capital, though, I remember you being able to wake up in an instant any time, day or night.” Lihaku had been Maomao’s bodyguard for a whole year, so she knew that no matter how deeply he might be sleeping, he could jump into action at the drop of a hat. “I have trouble believing that you would doze right through something that woke up my sister Pairin.”

“You’re saying someone gave him something?” asked Joka, coming down from the third floor.

“That’s right. This congee—it’s the stuff we serve to bad customers.” Maomao held up the empty bowl.

Bad customers meant exactly what it sounded like: customers who were behaving badly. It could be those who got violent with the women, or tried to force them to do more than they had been paid for, or even those who were simply too energetic and threatened to sap a courtesan’s stamina. What to do in those situations? The Verdigris House had its menservants, of course, as well as formal bodyguards. If a client was openly violent, it was simple enough to kick them out and tell them not to come back. But what about cases that didn’t go that far? Worse, what if those cases became repeat customers, leaving the women exhausted?

Sometimes the solution was to gently usher them into dreamland using wine or snacks prepared with a bit of sleeping medication. Just such medication had been in Lihaku’s congee. Even with the bowl empty, there was no deceiving Maomao’s nose.

“Was... Was I a bad customer?” Lihaku asked, shaken.

“No, sir. For the other courtesans, maybe, but Pairin needs someone at least as capable as you.”

“It’s 
sooo
 true,” Pairin cooed. She was something of a special case among the courtesans, but she was who she was.

“You’re sure?” Lihaku asked.

“Very sure! Please do come again.”

“I sure will!”

Lihaku’s spirits quickly revived, but it still left the question of what the drugs had been doing in the porridge. Perhaps they were even responsible for Lihaku’s uncharacteristically frantic behavior today.

The sleeping drugs used at the Verdigris House had a much amplified effect when taken with wine. They were always careful to make sure the dosage they used wouldn’t harm the customer, even if he was bad, but if someone had simply thrown the stuff in there, there was no telling what might happen.

There’s nothing 
else
 in this, is there?
 Maomao gave the empty bowl another good sniff. Then she said, “So Joka was in the bath when the thief came in, and the two of you had been given congee laced with sleeping medicine.”

It hardly seemed like coincidence.

Currently, only Pairin and Joka had rooms on the third floor.

“Pairin, the thief escaped out the window, right?”

“That’s right.”

“How was he dressed?”

“He had a brown outfit on. I couldn’t really describe his jacket, because I only saw him from behind, and only for a second. But underneath he was wearing loose pants.”

Something very common; easy to move in. Any number of people in town might fit that description.

“He was real lean and agile too; he had muscle everywhere.”

Very much the kind of detail that Pairin, with her appetite for meatheads, would notice.

“All right. And who brought the breakfast congee?”

“One of the apprentices. It was that girl, Zulin. Even Chou-u popped his head in, since Lihaku was here.”

“Chou-u did? I haven’t even seen him.” Maomao clucked her tongue. Chou-u was a boy with a past, and temporarily in Maomao’s care—but he hadn’t deigned to show his face to her in some time. Maybe he was going through a phase.

“Speak of the devil,” Pairin said. Into the foyer came Chou-u and his little shadow, Zulin.

“Chou-u!”

“Yikes!” The moment Chou-u saw Maomao, he braced himself.

After so long, it turned out the little brat wasn’t so little anymore. In fact, he was taller than Maomao now, and he had lost some of his baby fat. He didn’t have any facial hair yet, but he was now more a young man than a boy.

Zulin had come to the Verdigris House with her older sister by Maomao’s intervention. Evidently she was still attached at the hip to Chou-u. Being fed regularly had made her much plumper and prettier than when Maomao had first met her.

“Chou-u, Pairin says you brought her breakfast to her room?” Maomao said, asking Chou-u instead of Zulin because Zulin didn’t speak.

“Yeah, I did. So what? Got a problem with that?”

Maomao found herself oddly irritated by the fact that Chou-u’s eyeline was some three centimeters above hers. It was also, however, something she could do nothing about, and it was only going to get worse when he hit his growth spurt.

“That was bad-customer congee.”

“Huh?” Chou-u’s sound of befuddlement didn’t seem to be an act; confusion showed plainly on his face. “Well, I didn’t do anything to it.”

“It doesn’t change the fact that the sleeping drugs were in there,” Maomao said. Even if Chou-u had supplied the food in ignorance, she had to keep pressing him.

“Zulin, did you do something to the congee?” Chou-u asked. Zulin didn’t say anything out loud, but shook her head.

Then Chou-u clapped his hands as if he’d remembered something. “Oh, but you know, the congee was already waiting for us.”

“Waiting for you?”

Zulin nodded her silent affirmation.

“When we went to get it after the old lady told us to take it upstairs, there were a couple bowls already sitting there, so we grabbed them.”

Zulin nodded again.

“Maybe they grabbed some that was meant for another woman with a customer who’d overstayed his welcome?” Pairin suggested, squeezing Zulin’s cheeks. She’d done the same thing to Maomao when Maomao was young—Zulin just rolled with it.

It was the apprentices’ job to prepare the congee, but courtesans of middle rank and below made their own. There were customers besides Lihaku who stayed into the morning, and if they were unwelcome, some sleeping medicine in their breakfast was hardly unusual. But no one would simply leave “bad-customer congee” sitting there unattended.

“Congee’s no good after it dries out,” said Chou-u. “Serve a customer bad congee and they’ll just get mad, but if you waste congee, the old lady will. So we took the stuff that was ready.”

That was all true as far as it went. The madam was forever haranguing the courtesans and apprentices about not wasting food.

“They’re telling the truth. I’m the one who told Zulin to take the congee upstairs,” said the madam, coming into the room. “And I appreciate that they didn’t waste any. But now I want to know which good-for-nothing girl left congee sitting out!” She took a notepad out from a private desk drawer. Beside the desk stood the incense that was used to measure time. “Let’s see here. This morning we had five men stay long, not including our guest Lihaku. But none of them seem to have been bad customers.”

There were indeed six sticks of incense standing nearby, one for each of the men including Lihaku. One of the incense stands was particularly ornate—that must have belonged to Pairin, a high courtesan.

“You don’t think it’s someone whose behavior took a turn for the worse recently?” Maomao asked.

“I doubt it. Hell, see for yourself.” The madam handed her the notebook.

“I don’t know any of these names!” Not just of the customers—only two of the women were people who had been around long enough for Maomao to recognize them.

“We’re a business. We can’t keep selling the same tired old wares forever.”

“I see what you mean.”

Some women would be bought out of their contracts; others might move to other establishments. The lucky ones would be able to safely retire, but no small number of courtesans stopped working when they were laid low by illness—or death.

“Hey, Grams, you have a breakdown of the rooms on the second floor?”

“What do you want with that?”

“Just tell me.”

Maomao got the diagram from the old lady, then proceeded out to the courtyard.

“What are you doing?” the madam asked.

“I just want to see it with my own eyes.”

She moved so she was directly below Joka’s room. The madam, intrigued, followed her.

“I just figured, if he jumped out the window, there would be footprints right about here.”

“There was a rain shower two days ago.”

The ground was wet.

If he jumped from the third floor, you’d really think there would be some footprints.

But she saw nothing.

“Did anyone except Pairin see the thief?”

“Afraid not.”

“Not even one of the menservants?”

“That time of the morning, there just happened not to be anyone around. But you’re right—I’ll have to make sure those holes-for-eyes take a little discipline.” The madam’s eyes glinted. It might sound harsh of her, but one of the menservants’ jobs was to keep an eye out for any courtesans trying to make a getaway. Letting a thief escape so cleanly suggested some issues with security.

“You learn anything?” Lihaku asked.

“I want to keep looking around,” Maomao replied.

“Looking at what?” asked the madam.

“The second floor, just below Joka’s room.”

The madam made no move to stop Maomao—just gave her a look that said 
Make sure you find that thief.