“Simple. You’re working here to help take care of your little sister Zulin. It would be easy enough for you to find out what kind of work she’s doing.”

Among the duties of the apprentices was taking breakfast to the upper courtesans. Zulin’s Sister just had to find out when breakfast would be served, and mix in a bit of the sleeping medicine just before then.

“The madam’s been teaching you, which means you would know that a warm bowl of congee sitting around is going to be given priority. If your customer was in on the whole thing, he wouldn’t object to his woman stepping out for a moment. It was your bad luck that Pairin happened to give her breakfast to Master Lihaku, so she didn’t go to sleep. Instead she heard the noise from next door.”

“Uh-huh. That’s a very convincing little story, but it’s all supposition, isn’t it? Where’s the actual proof?”

Maomao gave a sniff—then did it again, then started sniffing her way around the room until she came to the place where the smell was strongest. It was just in front of the chest of clothing.

“Your thief is no fool,” she said. “When you burgle a place, you do it in an outfit that’s safe to be seen in.”

She thought back to Pairin’s testimony: “He had a brown outfit on. I couldn’t really describe his jacket, because I only saw him from behind, and only for a second. But underneath he was wearing loose pants.”

A very common kind of outfit, yes, but if it were the same thing he’d been wearing when he’d walked into the establishment, he’d have been suspected. Which would mean...

“What do you think you’re doing?!” Zulin’s Sister cried, grabbing at the clothes.

Maomao shoved her aside and snatched a brown jacket—one meant for a man.

She gave the jacket a sniff. “Pairin. This look anything like what the thief was wearing? It’s a man’s jacket.”

“Oh yeah! It was a lot like that.”

“It’s 
like
 that, it doesn’t mean it 
is
 that! You act like there’s only one man’s jacket in the world!”

A customer might forget their jacket, or trade it with a courtesan for an item of her clothing. The thief had probably put on some piece of forgotten clothing to do the crime, then come back here to change before leaving.

“You’re right—there are plenty just like it.” Maomao gave the jacket another sniff. There was something on it, something besides body odor. “But what’s this smell? It’s a very strong perfume.”

“That’s my perfume,” Zulin’s Sister said.

“Really?” Maomao brought the brown jacket to Joka, who took it with her fingertips, clearly repulsed by handling an article of men’s clothing, but sniffed at it.

“My, so this is your perfume?” she said.

“Interesting. It smells just like an imported perfume I got from one of my customers, a very important businessman. I suppose he was lying when he told me it was one of a kind, then.”

Maomao had noticed it the moment she’d entered Zulin’s Sister’s room.

Joka tossed the jacket away and stood in front of Zulin’s Sister. “You can’t talk your way out of this anymore,” she said with a look of cold fury. The next second, her open palm was up and flying toward Zulin’s Sister’s cheek. Zulin’s Sister took the blow on the left side of her face and leaned hard to the right. Barely an instant later, the back of Joka’s right hand connected with Zulin’s Sister’s right cheek.

“Ow! Ow, that hurts!”

Joka said nothing, but continued to slap the girl. The old madam didn’t stop her. The girl had brought it on herself, for one thing, and besides, Joka was stopping at slaps—an open palm was permitted in fights between courtesans.

“Won’t she swell up if you hit her too hard?” Maomao asked.

“I’m not going to let anyone see her for a couple or three days anyway,” the madam replied. In other words: Hit her as hard as you like.

“What the heck is going on?!” exclaimed Chou-u, who had come running at the sound of the commotion, Zulin hot on his heels.

With an expression of astonishment, Zulin leaped forward when she saw Joka beating her sister. She pounded on Joka, trying to get her to stop.

“Scram. You want me to beat you too?” Joka said, shoving the girl aside.

Zulin’s Sister took the opportunity to place a firm kick in Joka’s midriff, sending her sprawling backward, spittle flying from her mouth.

“Just what do you think you’re doing?!” the madam demanded, grabbing Zulin’s Sister by the hair.

“Don’t you dare touch Zulin!” she yelled. “You think I wanted to do it?! I had no choice! I did what I had to to earn my money—what’s wrong with that?!” Her eyes were red. “If a prostitute doesn’t move up in the world, the only way to go is down. I’ll do whatever I must to survive in this life. And I can’t survive on ideals and pretty talk! I know you’re all thinking it, whether or not you admit it—her customers pay well. If only we could make a little more, we could have an extra side dish!”

The other courtesans knitted their brows at that.

“You’re all thinking it! If I hadn’t done it, someone else would have! I know you all feel the same way I do—that the old guard are in the way, clinging to the top spots in a top brothel!”

“That’s enough out of you,” the madam growled. “Enough out of a second-rate whore who can’t bring down the ‘old guard’ by doing a better job. That’s your fault, not hers.” She gave a snorting laugh, then turned to the menservants. “Hey, what are you standing around for? Take her away. I can see she needs an attitude adjustment at the very least. I’ll decide how to do it later.”

Zulin’s Sister was hauled off to the discipline room. Zulin, dripping snot, clung to the madam’s feet, but the other courtesans pried her off.

“C’mon, Zulin, you can’t do this,” Chou-u said, trying to placate his lackey, but Zulin gave a great voiceless cry.

Maomao simply watched.

The madam always administered her discipline in a way that wouldn’t harm her girls’ prospective sales—but that sometimes made it more like torture, not less. She was trying to teach a lesson. Not just to Zulin’s Sister, but to the other women, lest they try to imitate her.

For a courtesan, these were the facts of life.