I can’t make it, but a nimble man? Maybe.

She took a quick glance around the rest of the room.

“Well?” the courtesan asked.

“I’m all set here. I’ll take a look at the next room.”

“I’m asking what you think!”

“I don’t 
think
 much of anything. Oh, but I do have a question. What were you doing between last night and this morning?” Maomao thought it would be worth asking.

“What was I doing? Do I have to give you my whole life story?”

“I’m trying to understand where you were and what you were up to at the time the thief snuck into Joka’s room. Surely you at least heard a noise or something?”

“I was with a customer. I had two yesterday.”

It was hardly unusual for a courtesan to entertain more than one man in a night.

“And this morning?” Maomao asked.

“I was in the big room where the apprentices sleep,” the woman said slowly.

“Why were you there?”

“Why this, why that! The customers in the rooms to either side of me stayed long. How the hell was I supposed to sleep?”

The rooms were separated, but the walls were not especially thick. Trying to sleep with moaning coming from either side couldn’t have been easy for this young woman—one of the pitfalls of being raised well.

“Okay. All right, thanks,” Maomao said, and then she left the well-bred courtesan’s room behind.

After the room in the center, she knocked on the door of the room to the left.

She was answered by Zulin’s older sister, the young woman who had become a courtesan here by Maomao’s intercession. She didn’t give Maomao the glaring that the first woman had; perhaps she felt she owed her some courtesy.

She was just a scrawny bird before , Maomao thought. Now she’d put on some meat and was even more ample than Maomao. No wonder she was selling so well.

“Let me see your room,” Maomao said.

“Just like that? How about a word of explanation?”

Like the other woman, Zulin’s Sister was reluctant to let Maomao in, but just like the other woman, when Maomao mentioned the old madam she reluctantly complied.

This room, too, smelled of perfume. Maomao sniffed the air, and as she was doing so, she inspected the chamber carefully.

“What have you been doing since last night?” she asked.

“Must I tell you?”

Her diction and usage were better; the madam must have worked on her speech. In contrast to the previous courtesan, however, the decor of this young lady’s room was all over the place. There were a few spots that clearly hadn’t been cleaned; clothes stuck out of their chest, and there were stains on the floor. She might look more mature than before, but personality-wise it seemed she still had some growing to do.

“You heard about the thief, I’m sure,” Maomao said. “And these rooms are right underneath Joka’s, so...” She proceeded to give her the same explanation she had given the other courtesan.

Zulin’s Sister reluctantly began to talk. “I took five customers last night. The last was in the early morning and he didn’t get much time, so he stayed long.”

“Sure.”

“What is it?” she asked, her vacant expression suggesting she’d been asleep.