“Five? That’s quite a few.” Maomao eyed the young woman. She was young yet, and her skin was smooth. Her eyes, though, were a bit bloodshot. Being a courtesan required considerable stamina—the more so the more customers one took.

“Unlike some of the others, I can’t play the erhu, or Go for that matter. I have to make up the difference by sheer numbers.”

“You can get away with that now, while you’re young, but it’s going to take its toll soon,” Maomao said brusquely. She felt she was giving the girl some advice for her own good, but it had the opposite effect.

“What exactly do you propose I do, then? Learn to read and write at my age? And cut into my precious sleeping hours? Impossible. Besides, if I don’t keep boosting my sales, Zulin and I will both be chased out. What, do you think I should make Zulin join me in this trade to earn a few more coins?”

Zulin’s Sister was incensed with Maomao. There was a reason she was so focused on making sales: her little sister, Zulin. She’d given up on their birth father and come knocking on the door of this brothel, but she couldn’t bring herself to give up on her sister.

“Our sister Pairin makes 
her
 money with her body,” the young courtesan went on. “Some days she takes a lot more customers than I do. Why don’t you go tell 
her
 to be careful?”

“Yeah, okay,” Maomao said, and didn’t pursue the matter. But she thought, 
That’s because Pairin is special.

Her combination of looks, endurance, and personal disposition made it seem like she had been born to be a courtesan. To begin with, there was a fundamental gulf in the skills possessed by her and this young woman. A little girl whose useless father had brought her up—or not, as the case may be—and who was desperately trying to protect her little sister simply had nothing. Except, that was, the spark of ambition in her eyes.

In any case, Maomao was in no position to lecture; she wasn’t a courtesan and should have kept her opinions to herself.

“All right. I take it that you didn’t see the thief enter or leave Joka’s room this morning, then?”

“I’m afraid not. I’m terribly sorry, but if you’re finished here, could I ask you to leave? Thanks to all the commotion, I haven’t slept a wink yet today.”

Zulin’s Sister gave a tired yawn and flopped into her bed. She’d changed the sheets, but hadn’t taken the time to straighten out the wrinkles. There would be many more customers tonight, Maomao guessed.

I just hope she doesn’t wind up with anyone with any sick tastes , Maomao thought, and moved on to the next room.

Finally, Maomao visited the courtesan in the room to the right. She was an old face Maomao knew personally.

She was two years older than Maomao and had been at the Verdigris House for more than a decade. She couldn’t boast the sales numbers of the Three Princesses, but she had a reputation as a skilled conversationalist who treated customers politely, so she had many visitors of the cultured persuasion. She was also very good at using conversation in lieu of a move to bedroom activities, so she did well looking after her health. She was that rarest of things: a courtesan who maintained a steady stream of customers.

“There was a thief in our sister Joka’s room,” Maomao said. “He escaped out the window, so I wanted to see the rooms directly below hers.”

Without so much as an I understand , the woman gestured Maomao inside. Perhaps it was all the talking she did with her customers that made her so taciturn when she was off the clock. Maomao was sometimes surprised to discover how the women could be like different people when they were entertaining customers.

“Thanks. Pardon me,” she said and looked around the room. It seemed rather unadorned at first glance, but what decorations there were suggested a woman of taste. It seemed to be how this lady sorted the wheat from the chaff among her visitors: Customers who lacked her quality would deride the room as too plain and leave. Only those who could appreciate the true value of things need stay.

The room was the same size as the other two Maomao had visited. There was a bed, a table, and a chair, along with a desk. There was also furniture the woman appeared to have purchased herself. On a small decorative table sat a vase sized for a single flower; it contained a bellflower, whose star-shaped bloom was in full blossom. The vase was the color of soil and, again, looked rather unimpressive at first glance, but it had been given to her by a customer who was distinguished by his elegance. It was small enough to fit in the palm of one’s hand, but evidently it was worth as much as several horses.

Maomao opened the window and studied the bars across it, as well as the walls immediately around it, as she had in the other rooms. “Did you happen to hear any noise outside your window this morning when the thief escaped?” she asked.

“Customers gone. Breakfast,” the woman said, apparently meaning that her customers had gone home, so she had been eating.

“So you didn’t see or hear anything?” Maomao pressed.

“Right.”

“Thanks,” she said, and left the reticent courtesan’s room.

“Ugh,” Maomao sighed as she headed back down to the first floor and made for the small office where the madam was. “Grams,” she called.

“You find the thief?”

“I think I’ve got an inkling who it is. Let me see the register.”

“Hrm. Fine, all right.” The madam handed Maomao a sheaf of rather low-quality paper.

Maomao opened to the final page of the register, which showed which courtesans had entertained which guests and when. “Is Ukyou around?” she asked, referring to a manservant who had been at the Verdigris House for a long time.

“You called?” said the brothel’s chief manservant, as if on cue.

“Would you be able to track this customer?” Maomao asked, indicating one of the names on the sheet. “There’s a good chance it’s a false name, though.”

“Hmm... Well, I can try. I’d better, or the old lady will chew me out!”

“I won’t chew you out. I’ll just cut your salary,” the madam said, tapping some ash out of her pipe.

“You’re too cruel!” Ukyou said, but left the building.