The madam looked at the name Maomao had pointed to, and which courtesan had been entertaining him. “I think I’ll get ready to administer some discipline,” she said.

“Don’t be 
too
 harsh.”

“I won’t leave any lasting injuries. Can’t go damaging the merchandise; you know that.”

From her robe the madam produced the key to the discipline room and then went up to the second floor. Maomao followed her.

A shiver passed among the watching courtesans.

Why hadn’t they been able to catch the thief?

Simple. To put it plainly, he’d had someone on the inside.

“What do you want now?” asked Zulin’s Sister, who was in her room waiting for customers and clearly in a bad mood. When she saw the madam behind Maomao, however, she quickly straightened up. Behind the madam a crowd of courtesans began to gather, drawn by the commotion. Gawkers, all.

Maomao didn’t ask permission this time but walked briskly into the room.

“Wh-What do you think you’re doing?” the young woman said.

Maomao inspected the window, where she found a reddish-black spot on the frame. A similar red stain was visible on the floor.

“This is blood, isn’t it?” she said.

“Yes; what about it? It’s from when I got hurt one time.”

“The thief rifled through Joka’s room looking for something. While he was at it, he stepped on this and hurt himself.” Maomao held up the broken hair stick. There was a dark-crimson discoloration on the broken end—congealed blood. “The thief waited until Joka was in the bath, then climbed up and entered through the window. He couldn’t climb very well in his shoes, so I presume he went up barefoot. As he was searching, though, he was discovered by Pairin, who had heard a noise in the next room. That’s why he fled through the window.”

“And this involves me how? A girl’s window frame can get dirty without her doing anything at all, you know.” Zulin’s Sister now openly regarded Maomao as an enemy; her tone was turning aggressive.

“You let the thief into your room as one of your customers—and then cooperated with him. Am I right?”

“I’ll thank you not to accuse me of whatever comes into your head. What could I have to gain from doing something like that? Do 
you
 think I seem like a thief, madam?”

“I’m not taking anybody’s side here. Anyone who damages my establishment will pay for it—that’s all.”

This was what made the old woman so frightening. As the one who had introduced Zulin’s Sister to the house, Maomao didn’t like to think about what would happen if it turned out she had done something. However, there was a matter she had to settle.

“I gather you’ve been selling very well recently. Any chance you’ve got your eye on that third-floor room that opened up when Meimei was bought out?”

One way to raise your own status was to simply lower that of those around you. Plenty of courtesans tried tactics like that, pulling the rug out from under the other women. The better your room in the brothel, the higher the quality of customer you attracted, and the higher the price you could command. Maomao understood that it was a life-and-death struggle to gain those positions.

Especially for this young lady, whose only way to make more is to use her body.

Just because she started bringing in money, though, there was no guarantee that the madam would elevate her to one of the Three Princesses. It wouldn’t help her case that her only claim over the other two was one of quantity, not quality.

Unpleasant though it might be to contemplate, what if she were to bring down Joka’s value? What if the jade tablet that was Joka’s trademark were to disappear?

That wouldn’t be enough to lower Joka’s value. Yet Zulin’s Sister, suffering an inferiority complex because of her birth and upbringing, might have wanted to steal it anyway.

She was turning out to be a tough nut to crack, though. She wasn’t going to confess to everything just because of a stain on her windowsill.

“Me and every other courtesan in this place, I assume. Why would you only accuse 
me
 of anything? There must have been other customers who stayed at least as late as mine, and my room isn’t the only one beneath Joka’s quarters. What about 
them
?”

Zulin’s Sister pointed at the taciturn courtesan and the one with the erhu. Neither of them looked very pleased to hear a junior lady refer to them with such undisguised contempt.

“I didn’t have a long-stayer today; I wasn’t even in my room,” said the one with the erhu.

“Oh? I’m sorry to hear you have so 
few
 customers.”

“Why, you...” The other woman made a fearsome grimace and might have given Zulin’s Sister a good whack if one of the menservants hadn’t held her back.

She certainly knows how to get under people’s skin , Maomao thought. She was a quick wit—maybe to compensate for Zulin’s inability to talk.

“Couldn’t be me,” said the quiet courtesan.

“Her customer had already left,” said Maomao. That woman’s customer had stayed late, but had gone before the thief broke in. But since the courtesan was a woman of even fewer words than Maomao, Maomao found she had to provide some additional explanation.

“Couldn’t he have 
pretended
 to go home and then come back to break in?” Zulin’s Sister said.

The other courtesan shook her head. “Not this man.”

“Her customer this morning was a gourmand with a very refined palate and a girth to match. I can’t picture this guy jumping out a window,” said Maomao, who had checked the register to see who had been in each room. A quick inquiry with the madam revealed what each customer was like.

“That’s true. The thief was definitely on the thin side,” Pairin added.

Zulin’s Sister glared at Maomao.

Maomao glared right back. “Either you or your customer had the idea of helping him break into Joka’s room, and you conspired with him to do it,” she said. “You made sure you knew when Joka would be in the bath, so that she wouldn’t be in her room. It just so happened that Pairin’s customer stayed long, though, and you couldn’t have them hearing anything—which is why you spiked their breakfast congee with the sleeping draught we usually use on bad customers.”

“Spiked it? And how did I do that?”

I thought she might say that.

Maomao turned the chest upside down.

Thought so.

“That’s right.”