The madam looked at the name Maomao had pointed to, and which courtesan had been entertaining him. “I think I’ll get ready to administer some discipline,” she said.

“Don’t be 
too
 harsh.”

“I won’t leave any lasting injuries. Can’t go damaging the merchandise; you know that.”

From her robe the madam produced the key to the discipline room and then went up to the second floor. Maomao followed her.

A shiver passed among the watching courtesans.

Why hadn’t they been able to catch the thief?

Simple. To put it plainly, he’d had someone on the inside.

“What do you want now?” asked Zulin’s Sister, who was in her room waiting for customers and clearly in a bad mood. When she saw the madam behind Maomao, however, she quickly straightened up. Behind the madam a crowd of courtesans began to gather, drawn by the commotion. Gawkers, all.

Maomao didn’t ask permission this time but walked briskly into the room.

“Wh-What do you think you’re doing?” the young woman said.

Maomao inspected the window, where she found a reddish-black spot on the frame. A similar red stain was visible on the floor.

“This is blood, isn’t it?” she said.

“Yes; what about it? It’s from when I got hurt one time.”

“The thief rifled through Joka’s room looking for something. While he was at it, he stepped on this and hurt himself.” Maomao held up the broken hair stick. There was a dark-crimson discoloration on the broken end—congealed blood. “The thief waited until Joka was in the bath, then climbed up and entered through the window. He couldn’t climb very well in his shoes, so I presume he went up barefoot. As he was searching, though, he was discovered by Pairin, who had heard a noise in the next room. That’s why he fled through the window.”

“And this involves me how? A girl’s window frame can get dirty without her doing anything at all, you know.” Zulin’s Sister now openly regarded Maomao as an enemy; her tone was turning aggressive.

“You let the thief into your room as one of your customers—and then cooperated with him. Am I right?”

“I’ll thank you not to accuse me of whatever comes into your head. What could I have to gain from doing something like that? Do 
you
 think I seem like a thief, madam?”

“I’m not taking anybody’s side here. Anyone who damages my establishment will pay for it—that’s all.”

This was what made the old woman so frightening. As the one who had introduced Zulin’s Sister to the house, Maomao didn’t like to think about what would happen if it turned out she had done something. However, there was a matter she had to settle.

“I gather you’ve been selling very well recently. Any chance you’ve got your eye on that third-floor room that opened up when Meimei was bought out?”

One way to raise your own status was to simply lower that of those around you. Plenty of courtesans tried tactics like that, pulling the rug out from under the other women. The better your room in the brothel, the higher the quality of customer you attracted, and the higher the price you could command. Maomao understood that it was a life-and-death struggle to gain those positions.

Especially for this young lady, whose only way to make more is to use her body.

Just because she started bringing in money, though, there was no guarantee that the madam would elevate her to one of the Three Princesses. It wouldn’t help her case that her only claim over the other two was one of quantity, not quality.

Unpleasant though it might be to contemplate, what if she were to bring down Joka’s value? What if the jade tablet that was Joka’s trademark were to disappear?

That wouldn’t be enough to lower Joka’s value. Yet Zulin’s Sister, suffering an inferiority complex because of her birth and upbringing, might have wanted to steal it anyway.

She was turning out to be a tough nut to crack, though. She wasn’t going to confess to everything just because of a stain on her windowsill.

“Me and every other courtesan in this place, I assume. Why would you only accuse 
me
 of anything? There must have been other customers who stayed at least as late as mine, and my room isn’t the only one beneath Joka’s quarters. What about 
them
?”

Zulin’s Sister pointed at the taciturn courtesan and the one with the erhu. Neither of them looked very pleased to hear a junior lady refer to them with such undisguised contempt.

“I didn’t have a long-stayer today; I wasn’t even in my room,” said the one with the erhu.

“Oh? I’m sorry to hear you have so 
few
 customers.”

“Why, you...” The other woman made a fearsome grimace and might have given Zulin’s Sister a good whack if one of the menservants hadn’t held her back.

She certainly knows how to get under people’s skin , Maomao thought. She was a quick wit—maybe to compensate for Zulin’s inability to talk.

“Couldn’t be me,” said the quiet courtesan.

“Her customer had already left,” said Maomao. That woman’s customer had stayed late, but had gone before the thief broke in. But since the courtesan was a woman of even fewer words than Maomao, Maomao found she had to provide some additional explanation.

“Couldn’t he have 
pretended
 to go home and then come back to break in?” Zulin’s Sister said.

The other courtesan shook her head. “Not this man.”

“Her customer this morning was a gourmand with a very refined palate and a girth to match. I can’t picture this guy jumping out a window,” said Maomao, who had checked the register to see who had been in each room. A quick inquiry with the madam revealed what each customer was like.

“That’s true. The thief was definitely on the thin side,” Pairin added.

Zulin’s Sister glared at Maomao.

Maomao glared right back. “Either you or your customer had the idea of helping him break into Joka’s room, and you conspired with him to do it,” she said. “You made sure you knew when Joka would be in the bath, so that she wouldn’t be in her room. It just so happened that Pairin’s customer stayed long, though, and you couldn’t have them hearing anything—which is why you spiked their breakfast congee with the sleeping draught we usually use on bad customers.”

“Spiked it? And how did I do that?”

“Simple. You’re working here to help take care of your little sister Zulin. It would be easy enough for you to find out what kind of work she’s doing.”

Among the duties of the apprentices was taking breakfast to the upper courtesans. Zulin’s Sister just had to find out when breakfast would be served, and mix in a bit of the sleeping medicine just before then.

“The madam’s been teaching you, which means you would know that a warm bowl of congee sitting around is going to be given priority. If your customer was in on the whole thing, he wouldn’t object to his woman stepping out for a moment. It was your bad luck that Pairin happened to give her breakfast to Master Lihaku, so she didn’t go to sleep. Instead she heard the noise from next door.”

“Uh-huh. That’s a very convincing little story, but it’s all supposition, isn’t it? Where’s the actual proof?”

I thought she might say that.

Maomao gave a sniff—then did it again, then started sniffing her way around the room until she came to the place where the smell was strongest. It was just in front of the chest of clothing.

“Your thief is no fool,” she said. “When you burgle a place, you do it in an outfit that’s safe to be seen in.”

She thought back to Pairin’s testimony: “He had a brown outfit on. I couldn’t really describe his jacket, because I only saw him from behind, and only for a second. But underneath he was wearing loose pants.”

A very common kind of outfit, yes, but if it were the same thing he’d been wearing when he’d walked into the establishment, he’d have been suspected. Which would mean...

Maomao turned the chest upside down.

“What do you think you’re doing?!” Zulin’s Sister cried, grabbing at the clothes.

Maomao shoved her aside and snatched a brown jacket—one meant for a man.

Thought so.

She gave the jacket a sniff. “Pairin. This look anything like what the thief was wearing? It’s a man’s jacket.”

“Oh yeah! It was a lot like that.”

“It’s 
like
 that, it doesn’t mean it 
is
 that! You act like there’s only one man’s jacket in the world!”

A customer might forget their jacket, or trade it with a courtesan for an item of her clothing. The thief had probably put on some piece of forgotten clothing to do the crime, then come back here to change before leaving.

“You’re right—there are plenty just like it.” Maomao gave the jacket another sniff. There was something on it, something besides body odor. “But what’s this smell? It’s a very strong perfume.”

“That’s my perfume,” Zulin’s Sister said.

“Really?” Maomao brought the brown jacket to Joka, who took it with her fingertips, clearly repulsed by handling an article of men’s clothing, but sniffed at it.

“My, so this is your perfume?” she said.

“That’s right.”

“Interesting. It smells just like an imported perfume I got from one of my customers, a very important businessman. I suppose he was lying when he told me it was one of a kind, then.”

Maomao had noticed it the moment she’d entered Zulin’s Sister’s room.

Joka tossed the jacket away and stood in front of Zulin’s Sister. “You can’t talk your way out of this anymore,” she said with a look of cold fury. The next second, her open palm was up and flying toward Zulin’s Sister’s cheek. Zulin’s Sister took the blow on the left side of her face and leaned hard to the right. Barely an instant later, the back of Joka’s right hand connected with Zulin’s Sister’s right cheek.

“Ow! Ow, that hurts!”

Joka said nothing, but continued to slap the girl. The old madam didn’t stop her. The girl had brought it on herself, for one thing, and besides, Joka was stopping at slaps—an open palm was permitted in fights between courtesans.

“Won’t she swell up if you hit her too hard?” Maomao asked.

“I’m not going to let anyone see her for a couple or three days anyway,” the madam replied. In other words: Hit her as hard as you like.

“What the heck is going on?!” exclaimed Chou-u, who had come running at the sound of the commotion, Zulin hot on his heels.

With an expression of astonishment, Zulin leaped forward when she saw Joka beating her sister. She pounded on Joka, trying to get her to stop.

“Scram. You want me to beat you too?” Joka said, shoving the girl aside.

Zulin’s Sister took the opportunity to place a firm kick in Joka’s midriff, sending her sprawling backward, spittle flying from her mouth.

“Just what do you think you’re doing?!” the madam demanded, grabbing Zulin’s Sister by the hair.

“Don’t you dare touch Zulin!” she yelled. “You think I wanted to do it?! I had no choice! I did what I had to to earn my money—what’s wrong with that?!” Her eyes were red. “If a prostitute doesn’t move up in the world, the only way to go is down. I’ll do whatever I must to survive in this life. And I can’t survive on ideals and pretty talk! I know you’re all thinking it, whether or not you admit it—her customers pay well. If only we could make a little more, we could have an extra side dish!”

The other courtesans knitted their brows at that.

“You’re all thinking it! If I hadn’t done it, someone else would have! I know you all feel the same way I do—that the old guard are in the way, clinging to the top spots in a top brothel!”

“That’s enough out of you,” the madam growled. “Enough out of a second-rate whore who can’t bring down the ‘old guard’ by doing a better job. That’s your fault, not hers.” She gave a snorting laugh, then turned to the menservants. “Hey, what are you standing around for? Take her away. I can see she needs an attitude adjustment at the very least. I’ll decide how to do it later.”

Zulin’s Sister was hauled off to the discipline room. Zulin, dripping snot, clung to the madam’s feet, but the other courtesans pried her off.

“C’mon, Zulin, you can’t do this,” Chou-u said, trying to placate his lackey, but Zulin gave a great voiceless cry.

Maomao simply watched.

The madam always administered her discipline in a way that wouldn’t harm her girls’ prospective sales—but that sometimes made it more like torture, not less. She was trying to teach a lesson. Not just to Zulin’s Sister, but to the other women, lest they try to imitate her.

For a courtesan, these were the facts of life.