“I suspect so.” Jinshi wrote something beside the huaya he had copied out. “Huaya written with two characters are called twin-joins, and they often involve joining the left side of one character to the right side of the other. In this case, it looks to me like the top and bottom have been run together.”

“Is... Is that so?”

It was true that Jinshi’s own jade tablet had a very similar huaya.

Maomao thought of Joka. She made her sales by giving the impression that she was somehow descended from the royal line—but if she really was, what would happen then? Maomao had known it might be the case, but being confronted with the reality, she couldn’t help panicking a little.

“If I may ask, who is the owner of this tablet?” said Jinshi. All his awkwardness had vanished. He, too, was a man of business, and he seemed to prioritize the issue in front of him over any lingering embarrassment.

“If you knew who it was, would you punish her?” Maomao asked, shivering at the thought. She knew Jinshi was not your average bureaucrat, but even so, she didn’t want to sell out a family member. She would hate for anything to happen to her sister Joka.

“The owner didn’t steal the tablet, did she?”

“No, sir. I told you the truth about its history.” Maomao had been told that Joka’s mother had received it from a customer. “However, she sometimes showed the tablet to customers and told them about it, and rumors occasionally circulate that she’s descended from the Imperial family.”

Joka herself never said as much; she claimed she simply let customers come to their own (mistaken) conclusions.

Maomao hoped she had put things in the best light, but Jinshi seemed to guess the truth.

“You’re telling me that because of that, this tablet has become a liability?” he said.

“Precisely, sir.” Maomao let out a long sigh. Jinshi didn’t seem to show any inclination to punish anyone for speaking of the Imperial family. “A burglar broke into the brothel looking for that tablet. My acquaintance thinks there’s a chance he may try to take it by force next time, and she decided the safest course of action would be to part ways with it.”

“Are you certain this tablet is what they were after?”

“Yes, sir. I’m told someone came by recently seeking to purchase it. And it was...” Maomao forced herself to remember the all-too-forgettable name. “...a soldier named Fang.”

“Fang? Wang Fang?”

“Yes, sir. The man who was killed in the freak strategist’s office.”

Jinshi was a smart person, and unlike Maomao, he had a grasp of human relationships.

“So Wang Fang was looking for descendants of the Imperial family, and you think he was killed as a result?”

“I don’t know. But it would be a better way to go out than simply being ganged up on by the three women you were cheating on. Maybe he was playing them in an effort to get information.”

Were the women who had killed Wang Fang still in jail?

“Hmm. Who is the owner of the tablet, then? You still haven’t actually said.”

“You’re telling me you won’t punish her?” Maomao pressed. Jinshi didn’t need her to tell him; with his information network, he could easily find out who the tablet’s owner was.

“You keep asking that. Do you really mistrust me so much?” A slight furrow appeared in Jinshi’s brow. Not wishing to upset him, Maomao thought this might be a good time to back down.

“You have your position to think of,” she replied.

Sometimes Jinshi’s position dictated cruel punishments. If Maomao didn’t specifically tell him Joka’s name, it might be easier to justify not inflicting one on her.

“I won’t do anything to harm you...or the person who gave this to you.”

Maomao suspected it was true, as far as it went. Jinshi would do everything he could to avoid breaking a promise, even if it caused him pain.

For a long moment, the two of them stared at each other.

“My, my,” said Chue, breaking in. “I know how much you love talking to Maomao about everything, Moon Prince, but I think she’s starting to feel like you don’t trust her.”

“Isn’t this what trust is?”

“I don’t think that’s trust so much as domination,” Chue said, and Jinshi could be seen to flinch. “If you want to know absolutely everything, that’s as good as leaving the other person naked and defenseless! You may think that it’s no problem for Maomao as long as she’s under your protection, but then, at that point, does she really have a choice? To play along with you here would mean having to stay by you forever.”

Jinshi went a little pale.

Chue drawled on. “And Miss Maomao, I know you’re trying to keep the Moon Prince from being overburdened, in your own way, but you’re a little too aggressive, methinks.”

“Aggressive...” Maomao narrowed her eyes.

“Admittedly, most people would probably say anything they had to say to get in good with the Moon Prince. Ah! Miss Chue won’t say another word now. She has no malice, so please don’t punish her!”

Having said her piece, Chue stepped back with a glance at Suiren. Suiren’s expression didn’t twitch, but she left Jinshi’s chamber. Chue put a relieved hand to her chest and let out a breath. “Miss Chue will excuse herself now,” she said, and followed Suiren out of the room.

Now Maomao and Jinshi were alone, but Maomao’s head was full of the jade tablet. For a moment Jinshi looked like he’d taken a bite of something sour, but a few seconds later his expression returned to normal.

“Has the owner of this tablet done anything worthy of punishment?” he asked.

“No sir, by no means.”

We’re safe...barely.

“Then there’s no problem. If need be, I was planning to assign a bodyguard to her.”

“I think she would turn you down on that, sir.”

“I’ll file the matter of this tablet away in my memory. And maybe I’ll increase the patrols around the pleasure district just for good measure.”

“I think that would be a very helpful way of approaching it, sir.”

Evidently Jinshi didn’t intend to press Maomao any further.

“I can’t make any judgments on the basis of a huaya alone. Let’s see what other distinguishing characteristics this thing has. It’s made of jade—jadeite, at that, and of a rich color.” He seemed to be enunciating the tablet’s unique features for his own benefit. “Knowing you, Maomao, I presume you’ve already considered the possibility that this tablet does belong to the Imperial family. Even if you didn’t recognize the huaya, you’re imaginative enough to have thought of it.”

“It occurred to me that it might belong to someone of very distinguished status.”

If the tablet was really Imperial in origin—well, the thought sent a shiver down her spine.

“From the way it’s been shaved and shattered, we can see a complicated history: Someone didn’t want it to be recognized in public, but found they couldn’t throw it away.” Jinshi seemed to have come to much the same conclusion as Maomao. “Maybe someone who really was of the Imperial line, but defaced the tablet so as not to get dragged into the family’s conflicts.”

“I think that’s very possible, sir.”

“If it’s true, the question becomes what era this tablet hails from. It’s hard to imagine that it’s very recent. Assuming, at least, that His Majesty hasn’t been roving the streets in disguise.”

Knowing the Emperor, it was conceivable—but it wasn’t possible.

“I don’t think it can be His Majesty,” Maomao said. “Because I was told it was given some thirty years ago.”

“Thirty years...”

Jinshi twirled the writing brush in his fingers. It was mostly dry, so no ink went flying from it, but it was horrifying to think if it had. Any one item of Jinshi’s personal wear would have represented a year’s salary for a commoner. Suddenly seized with fear, Maomao grabbed the brush from him.

“And I think the chances of it being the former emperor are vanishingly small,” Jinshi said.

“I’m aware, sir.”

The former monarch was infamous for his penchant for little girls, and it was almost impossible to imagine him with Joka’s mother. Besides, Joka’s vague descriptions of her father sounded nothing like the former emperor.

The man was supposedly handsome, but filthy, as I recall.

He didn’t 
sound
 very imperial.

“My acquaintance also told me that when the jade was given, it was already broken and shaved down. Considering that it is jade, perhaps it was passed down through generations?”

“That would have to be the former emperor’s time at the most recent, then. There are a handful of relatives still left from before they were forced to retire to monasteries and convents.”

That had been under the reign of the empress regnant. The former emperor had assumed the throne when all his half-brothers had died of illness. One heard, however, that after his accession, the surviving male relatives of the Imperial line had been shunted aside so that they would be no threat to the sovereign.

No idea how true that is, though.

If the tablet’s original owner had been one of the former emperor’s half-siblings, that certainly would mean getting dragged into a family quarrel. If its owner had defaced the tablet and renounced his Imperial heritage to avoid that outcome, well, maybe it had been a wise decision. Even if it might have been safer to simply throw it away.

“It’s hard to determine how old something made of jade might be,” said Maomao. If it had been cloth, it would have been easy to tell. Weaving techniques and patterns changed from age to age.

“You know, I think it may be possible,” said Jinshi, studying the tablet. “Only so many craftsmen are allowed to make Imperial jades. They should have records of these designs—kept so that no two Imperial huaya are the same.”

“Then...”

“Yes. I’ll keep this and look into the matter. By the way...”

“Yes, sir?” Maomao looked at Jinshi. Was there something else bothering him?

“I gather you were at the meeting of the named yesterday and today.”

“Yes, sir. Lahan roped me into it.”

“Ah, Lahan. Yes, I could see him wanting to drag you to that meeting.” It seemed to make sense to Jinshi. “I’m sure you’re tired of being forced to do so much lately,” he said placatingly.

“I suppose I did get to see a lot of different things. It was good experience, I’m sure. Master Basen was there too, you know.”

“Ah, yes. I would have liked to have gone myself,” Jinshi said, a bit sullenly.

“I’m afraid you’re not allowed there, Master Jinshi.”

“Why not? You don’t have to be named to attend, do you?”

“Master Jinshi, what would people think of a boss who popped up right when his subordinates were having a nice drink together?”

Jinshi pondered. Maomao suspected he was picturing the freak strategist as the boss in question.

“I suppose they might think...he wasn’t very perceptive?”

“I wouldn’t know. But the best bosses are certainly the ones who just dispense some money and get out of there.”

“That’s tragic!” Jinshi looked at her, pouting.

Maomao couldn’t resist a little smile.

Two sets of eyes were watching them as they chatted.

“They’re not getting anywhere at all!” the owner of one of the pairs drawled.

“They’re both such professional people, that’s the problem,” the other agreed.

Neither Maomao nor Jinshi ever noticed Chue and Suiren peeping into the room.