“No sir, by no means.”

“Then there’s no problem. If need be, I was planning to assign a bodyguard to her.”

“I think she would turn you down on that, sir.”

“I’ll file the matter of this tablet away in my memory. And maybe I’ll increase the patrols around the pleasure district just for good measure.”

“I think that would be a very helpful way of approaching it, sir.”

Evidently Jinshi didn’t intend to press Maomao any further.

“I can’t make any judgments on the basis of a huaya alone. Let’s see what other distinguishing characteristics this thing has. It’s made of jade—jadeite, at that, and of a rich color.” He seemed to be enunciating the tablet’s unique features for his own benefit. “Knowing you, Maomao, I presume you’ve already considered the possibility that this tablet does belong to the Imperial family. Even if you didn’t recognize the huaya, you’re imaginative enough to have thought of it.”

“It occurred to me that it might belong to someone of very distinguished status.”

If the tablet was really Imperial in origin—well, the thought sent a shiver down her spine.

“From the way it’s been shaved and shattered, we can see a complicated history: Someone didn’t want it to be recognized in public, but found they couldn’t throw it away.” Jinshi seemed to have come to much the same conclusion as Maomao. “Maybe someone who really was of the Imperial line, but defaced the tablet so as not to get dragged into the family’s conflicts.”

“I think that’s very possible, sir.”

“If it’s true, the question becomes what era this tablet hails from. It’s hard to imagine that it’s very recent. Assuming, at least, that His Majesty hasn’t been roving the streets in disguise.”

Knowing the Emperor, it was conceivable—but it wasn’t possible.

“I don’t think it can be His Majesty,” Maomao said. “Because I was told it was given some thirty years ago.”

“Thirty years...”

Jinshi twirled the writing brush in his fingers. It was mostly dry, so no ink went flying from it, but it was horrifying to think if it had. Any one item of Jinshi’s personal wear would have represented a year’s salary for a commoner. Suddenly seized with fear, Maomao grabbed the brush from him.

“And I think the chances of it being the former emperor are vanishingly small,” Jinshi said.

“I’m aware, sir.”

The former monarch was infamous for his penchant for little girls, and it was almost impossible to imagine him with Joka’s mother. Besides, Joka’s vague descriptions of her father sounded nothing like the former emperor.

The man was supposedly handsome, but filthy, as I recall.

He didn’t 
sound
 very imperial.

“My acquaintance also told me that when the jade was given, it was already broken and shaved down. Considering that it is jade, perhaps it was passed down through generations?”

“That would have to be the former emperor’s time at the most recent, then. There are a handful of relatives still left from before they were forced to retire to monasteries and convents.”

That had been under the reign of the empress regnant. The former emperor had assumed the throne when all his half-brothers had died of illness. One heard, however, that after his accession, the surviving male relatives of the Imperial line had been shunted aside so that they would be no threat to the sovereign.

No idea how true that is, though.

If the tablet’s original owner had been one of the former emperor’s half-siblings, that certainly would mean getting dragged into a family quarrel. If its owner had defaced the tablet and renounced his Imperial heritage to avoid that outcome, well, maybe it had been a wise decision. Even if it might have been safer to simply throw it away.

“It’s hard to determine how old something made of jade might be,” said Maomao. If it had been cloth, it would have been easy to tell. Weaving techniques and patterns changed from age to age.

“You know, I think it may be possible,” said Jinshi, studying the tablet. “Only so many craftsmen are allowed to make Imperial jades. They should have records of these designs—kept so that no two Imperial huaya are the same.”

“Yes. I’ll keep this and look into the matter. By the way...”

“Yes, sir?” Maomao looked at Jinshi. Was there something else bothering him?

“I gather you were at the meeting of the named yesterday and today.”

“Yes, sir. Lahan roped me into it.”

“Ah, Lahan. Yes, I could see him wanting to drag you to that meeting.” It seemed to make sense to Jinshi. “I’m sure you’re tired of being forced to do so much lately,” he said placatingly.

“I suppose I did get to see a lot of different things. It was good experience, I’m sure. Master Basen was there too, you know.”

“Ah, yes. I would have liked to have gone myself,” Jinshi said, a bit sullenly.

“I’m afraid you’re not allowed there, Master Jinshi.”

“Why not? You don’t have to be named to attend, do you?”

“Master Jinshi, what would people think of a boss who popped up right when his subordinates were having a nice drink together?”

Jinshi pondered. Maomao suspected he was picturing the freak strategist as the boss in question.

“I suppose they might think...he wasn’t very perceptive?”

“I wouldn’t know. But the best bosses are certainly the ones who just dispense some money and get out of there.”

“That’s tragic!” Jinshi looked at her, pouting.

Maomao couldn’t resist a little smile.

Two sets of eyes were watching them as they chatted.

“They’re not getting anywhere at all!” the owner of one of the pairs drawled.

“They’re both such professional people, that’s the problem,” the other agreed.

Neither Maomao nor Jinshi ever noticed Chue and Suiren peeping into the room.