“I assume you were told to preserve them,” Maomao said. “You can see how unwieldy they are to handle in this form, and besides, they’ll rot if we leave them this way, so we convert them into a form that’s easier to store. Watch me, observe what I do, and then help me. Feel free to take notes if you need to.”

Maomao took the herbs and plucked off the leaves. They were already nice and dry, so there was no need to let them dry further.

“Put the leaves in here as you finish with them.” Maomao pulled out a drawer of the medicine cabinet and placed it in front of the new assistant.

The new girl didn’t say much; whether because she was diligent or because she was nervous, Maomao couldn’t tell. Maomao was perfectly happy to work in silence, but if this girl was going to be in her office, she needed to make sure she knew the job.

“You know what these leaves are?” she asked.

“That’s right.” Maybe the question had been too easy; the young woman had answered awfully quickly. “What does it do?”

“At home we used it to treat coughs and headaches.”

“At home?” Maomao actually stopped working and looked at the new assistant. “Did your family run an apothecary or something?” Her interest was piqued.

“We weren’t apothecaries, but my grandmother was a shaman.”

Ahh, so that’s it.

She was a little disappointed to find out they weren’t quite colleagues.

Sparsely populated villages often lacked a doctor or proper apothecary. Instead, the role would be filled by a village elder or cunning woman. Maomao didn’t believe in magic or anything of that sort. In most cases there was no evidence for it, and it was frequently used to deceive people. But she couldn’t completely dismiss the possibility. If nothing else, she could tell that this young lady’s grandmother had been one of the good shamans, on account of the girl’s knowledge. Maybe that knowledge had also helped her pass the written examination, which tested an applicant’s understanding of herbs and medicine.

I think there may be some talent to work with here.

She’d had to practically beat the knowledge into Sazen when she’d wanted him to take over the apothecary in the pleasure district for her; this girl seemed likely to be more self-motivated in her studies.

“While we’re at it, I want to make up some common medicines. Help me with that.”

Maomao’s junior watched closely and imitated her. Maomao took some of the herbs that had been sitting on the table.

At that point, a blobby creature, rather like a jellyfish, approached them.

“Hey, there! Whatcha doin’?” It was, needless to say, Tianyu. “Are you teaching the new girl, Niangniang? She’s the short one, so this must be...Changsha, right?”

He doesn’t even remember 
my
 name, but he remembers hers?

Regardless, he was correct. Right, her name was Changsha.

Maomao knew that if she showed any annoyance, Tianyu would only find it funny and needle her some more, so she ignored him.

“Y-Yes,” Changsha said. “I’m receiving some instruction from my esteemed senior, Maomao.”

“Ha ha ha ha! Listen, Niangniang has a tendency to break into a dance when she sees a strange new medicine, so watch out!”

Two could play at that game.

“Ha ha ha ha! Listen, Tianyu has a tendency to do the same thing when he sees a dead body, so watch out!”

“Uh... Strange new medicine? Dead bodies?” Changsha looked from Maomao to Tianyu and back.

“You’re going to confuse the new girl, so if you would kindly butt out? Maybe find yourself some real work to do?”

Maomao put the dried leaves in the mortar and began crushing them. “You don’t want to try to mix everything together at once,” she advised Changsha. “Make sure they’re good and crushed, then mix them. You want the powder to be as fine as possible.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Hey, hey!” Tianyu was proving very persistent.

You know, that reminds me...

Back in the western capital, she’d heard a story that he was a descendant of Kada. She didn’t know just how true it was, but since Joka’s story had been something more than fiction, maybe there was something to it.

I wonder if Tianyu knew Wang Fang.

When they’d handled Wang Fang’s body in the freak strategist’s office, Tianyu had acted like it was just another corpse. Maomao would have expected some sort of reaction if Wang Fang had been someone he knew.

Maomao didn’t stop working, even as she pondered. “Once the leaves are powdered, mix them up according to the prescribed proportions. We used refined honey as a binder.” She showed Changsha a viscous substance in a pot.

“What kind of honey is that? Is it like ordinary bee honey?”

“It’s what you get when you heat bees’ honey. Untreated honey has a lot of water in it, so we want to get some of that out.”

“Ah, that makes sense.”

“Hey, you two!” said Tianyu, still not getting up.

Maomao mixed the refined honey into a concoction of several kinds of powdered herbs. It was like making noodles: It was amorphous at first, then gradually began to take on form. She was left with a sphere of claylike material with a distinctive aroma.

“You want it to be about as soft as an earlobe,” she said. “There’s a wooden mold on top of the cabinet, so—Ah, you there, the physician! Could you get the mold for us?” she asked, finally speaking to Tianyu.

“You only want me around to do chores for you,” he grumbled, but he seemed pleased that she was finally engaging with him; he got the mold as requested.

“Thank you very much. You may go. Anywhere else.”

“You’re not very nice to me, you know.”

It was just the way Maomao always treated Tianyu, but Changsha evidently couldn’t stand to watch, because she said, “D-Doctor Tianyu, thank you very much. You really were a big help.”

“Hee hee hee! Don’t mention it!”

“You’re still so young, but they say you already do the same work as a middle physician. And I hear you’re an especially talented surgeon,” she went on.

“Heh heh! I mean, I guess.” Tianyu, perhaps unused to receiving praise, gave a somewhat creepy grin.

“How did you learn to administer such precise treatment?”

“Oh, I cut up a lot of dead—”

Maomao kicked him in the shin.

“Yowch!” Tianyu hopped on one leg. “Niangniang, what do you think you’re doing?!”

She gave him a toothy scowl.

What does he think 
he’s
 doing, blabbing about the dissections like that!

That the doctors did such things was supposed to be a secret—not something Tianyu should be chattering about to a newcomer like Changsha.

“Huh? O—Oh,” Tianyu said as his mistake finally dawned on him. He blinked, but only with one eye. It was as irritating with him as it was with Chue, albeit for different reasons.

“My dad was a hunter, you see. So I’m used to butchering wild animals.”

“Butchering wild animals makes you good at surgery?” Changsha asked.

“Well, there’s a big difference between people who have seen blood before and people who haven’t.”

The story matched up with the one Maomao had heard from Dr. You in the western capital.

“So your father was a hunter?” Maomao asked, pretending it was the first time she’d heard about it.

“Uh-huh.”

“Maybe I could visit your house sometime, then?”

“What? You wanna 
meet my dad
?” Tianyu looked at her, allowing his eyes to shine theatrically.

“
No
. No. I’d just like some nice, fresh meat. It’s hard to get in the capital, right?”

“Oh.” Tianyu took Maomao’s meaning: She wanted livestock that she could dissect. To the listening Changsha, though, it would sound like they were just talking about getting some food.

Maomao’s real intention, however, was to see exactly what kind of place Tianyu came from.

“I’d love to share with you, really, but I can’t. Dad disowned me.”

“Gee, that’s too bad.” Still Maomao didn’t stop working. She packed the claylike lump of herbs into the mold, then pushed it together to produce nice, round balls of medicine. “All right. If you would kindly get out of here eventually? Surely a busy physician like yourself has other work to attend to.”

“Aww, but I can help!”

“Thank you, but we don’t need any help. Get going, or I’ll tell Dr. Li—you know how much muscle he’s put on. In fact, he’s kept it on even after we got back to the capital. Did you know he hung a sandbag from a tree in his garden and spends all his time punching and kicking it? And that on his breaks he sometimes goes down to train with the soldiers? Do you want to be a sandbag?”

“Yikes! Scary!”

Maomao wasn’t sure where Dr. Li’s routine was going to lead him, but he seemed to be living his best life. Tianyu, thoroughly intimidated by the prospect of the bulky doctor, slunk away.

“Dr. Tianyu is a very unusual man, isn’t he?” Changsha said.

“Yes. You’d be best off steering clear of him,” Maomao replied, as she pressed out more medicine balls.