There should be plenty of all of that right now.

Some herbs were harder to get at certain times of year, but from early spring through summer, they were comparatively abundant, which was a boon for the medical staff.

In the next room, another doctor had returned from a different job and set about helping Dr. Li and the old doctor. Cutting and sewing without anesthetic frequently resulted in a lot of thrashing—for which purpose the surgical table was designed with ties for the arms and legs. They must have put a gag in the man’s mouth to keep him from biting his tongue, because Maomao heard only muffled screaming.

Maomao was going to serve in this assignment for a while, and she assumed that eventually Yao and En’en would find their way here as well.

En’en’s probably going to be all right, but Yao?

Yao had guts, true enough, but Maomao couldn’t help wondering if she could really stomach this.

She was equally concerned about their two new junior assistants. It would be a shame to scare them off by giving them such ugly work, but then again, they couldn’t be babied either.

Maomao contemplated the future as she brought the medicines to the doctors.

The actual sewing of the wound seemed to have been taken care of fairly quickly. The floor was strewn with bloody bandages, and the poor young soldier getting sewn up had wet himself. That was hardly unusual; in fact, the medical office kept a supply of fresh underpants and trousers on hand for that very reason. Maomao left a change of clothes on the shelf along with the medicines.

“Will this do for herbs?” she asked. In addition to the coagulants, she’d brought antiseptics, painkillers, and antipyretics.

“Yes, good work.” The old doctor daubed some coagulant onto the freshly sewn wound and wrapped a bandage around it. “Dr. Li, if you two could transfer the patient from the surgical table to a cot? And Maomao... Let’s see. Help clean up the bandages and tools.”

“Yes, sir.” Maomao started tossing the filthy bandages into a basket.

“You know how to boil the tools to disinfect them? If so, I’d like you to go ahead and take care of it.”

The old doctor seemed like quite a polite person. Maomao was grateful that he was willing to give specific instructions. There were plenty of people in the world who insisted that others should use their own brains to figure out what to do—then got angry when people didn’t do what they expected. The patients might behave badly, but there were a great many talented physicians. Maybe that was because the old doctor himself seemed to have it together so well. Maomao decided her current posting wasn’t bad at all.

Except, of course, for the fact that the freak strategist was never far away...

The parade of patients continued. Only when the sun was getting low in the sky did Maomao finally have a chance to rest. Ironically, it was precisely thanks to the fact that a monocled freak had begun to appear in the corners of their vision.

“Say, uh, Maomao,” Dr. Li said, looking from her to the freak and back.

“Please don’t say it, Dr. Li.” Maomao was preparing tea.

The old doctor must have finally caught a break himself, because he was sipping a cup of hot tea and breathing a sigh of relief. “Quite a day today, eh? As always,” he said.

“Yes, sir. I learned a lot.”

“Dr. Li, you truly do seem like a different person since you got back.” Dr. Li, with muscles built on a diet of soybean powder and goat’s milk, still appeared to be bursting with energy, like he could’ve gone on without a rest. Then the old doctor went on, “I must say, though, things have seemed awfully strange with the military lately.”

Maomao thought for a second about whether she should say anything, then asked, “Strange, sir? You mean the number of not-so-accidental injuries?” Dr. Li nodded along with her. The two of them hadn’t been there very long, but even they had already noticed—there were a lot of unusual wounds.

“I see it hasn’t been lost on you two.”

“No... Ahem. That man with the wooden sword in his belly today, well, it was hard to see it as anything but an intentional stabbing,” said Dr. Li, voicing exactly what Maomao wanted to say. “Do you think there’s some particularly brutal hazing going on?”

The soldiers who had brought the injured man to the office had scuttled out again with hardly a word of explanation—very fishy. You’d think they would have been a bit more respectful of their colleague.

“Hazing? I think it’s factional strife.”

“Factional strife?” Maomao and Dr. Li echoed. They gave tilts of their heads, then glanced at the suspicious figure looming behind them.

“Yes, my dear Maomao? What is it?” The freak strategist grinned openly.

Maomao ignored him and turned back to the old doctor.

“Perhaps we could say it’s essentially a turf war among the rank and file,” he said.

“What makes you say that?” Dr. Li asked, furrowing his brow.

“In nature, having a big apex predator at the top of the food chain can determine the power dynamics among its prey.”

Maomao and Dr. Li glanced back again.

“But that predator has been gone for a whole year, so the prey started to fight over the feeding grounds.”

“Yes, sir.”

The old doctor hadn’t used any names, but his point couldn’t have been more clear.

“Prey are prey are prey, but they’re not all the same species. While the predator was away, the prey who got stronger became the one who eats the other prey.”

“And those who have gone over to that side feel they can do whatever they want...as we’ve seen,” Maomao said.

“Precisely.”

“That’s frustrating, but won’t it sort itself out eventually?”

“I’d like to think so. Yes, one can hope...”

Now that the apex predator, namely the freak strategist, was back, one might expect things to return to their original order, but the old doctor didn’t seem quite so sure.

Maomao crossed her arms.

That reminds me...

It made her think of something the patriarch of the U clan had said.

“It seems the new faction in the army doesn’t like me much at all.”

Did that have something to do with this?

“Is there something bothering you, sir?” Dr. Li said, voicing the question that the old physician seemed to want them to ask.

“You’re probably going to hear about this anyway, so I might as well tell you. The military is currently divided into two major blocs—the Empress Dowager’s family, and the Empress’s family.”

The Empress’s family would be the Gyoku clan. This was presumably the new faction to which the U patriarch had referred.

“Then again, I suppose you could say there are three factions, if you include the neutral group that aligns itself with neither side,” the old physician said.

“Hrk!” Maomao involuntarily made a strange noise.

The old doctor was looking at her and the freak strategist who secretly watched them.

“That’s very, uh...” said Maomao.

“A lot of trouble, isn’t it? Do you see, then, what I’m trying to tell you?” The old doctor looked straight at Maomao. “We need you to wrangle that predator as well as you can, to spare us even a little of the chaos we now find ourselves in.”

Maomao didn’t say anything, but, quite without meaning to, she gave the world’s biggest frown.