“Meanwhile, a completely separate third party who happened to be walking by got angry, a duel- cum -brawl started, and you got hurt. And the guy whose sister you insulted brought you here.”

“Don’t you think you’re a little 
too
 forgiving?” Maomao said, looking at Ujun.

“I shouldn’t say so. The Shin and U clans have finally reconciled. I can’t let them come to grief again because of me.”

In other words, he wouldn’t let a member of the Shin clan, even one like this, go abandoned, even if that person had also insulted Lishu.

I wonder what his clan leader would make of that.

Perhaps in reaction to all that had happened, the U leader seemed to dote on Lishu. He might even have preferred if Ujun had left Mister Love Letters to his fate for insulting her.

“We’ll need to at least know who it was that hurt you,” said Dr. Li.

“I said, Basen,” he answered, not sounding very happy.

“Master Basen did this?” Maomao asked, but even as she spoke it made sense. Mister Love Letters’s wounds were severe, but coming from Basen, it was understandable. In fact... “You’re lucky he didn’t burst any of your organs,” she muttered. She looked back almost fondly on the way he had snapped those bandits’ arms like twigs in the western capital. Further back in her memory, there was the time he had broken a lion’s nose. He’d probably tried not to use his full strength as best he could today, but he’d still broken several ribs—and Mister Love Letters was lucky it hadn’t been worse.

“Wha? I defended against his blow with a wooden sword, and look! The sword is broken, and I’ve got— Cough! Cough! ” Mister Love Letters still wasn’t in good enough shape to be shouting like that.

I know he lost to Lahan’s Brother, but he did know his way around a fight, more or less.

Mister Love Letters might have been a questionable human being, but he certainly knew how to handle himself.

Dr. Li cinched down the bandages even tighter, as if to instruct Mister Love Letters not to talk.

He fought a bear masquerading as a man. Bad luck.

A person who encountered a bear was fortunate just to live to tell the tale. They should probably be applauding the fact that he was alive at all.

“I’m actually impressed you were able to duel Master Basen. But I would have thought his strength and power were well-known to the other soldiers.”

“When Master Basen duels other soldiers, he often does it at a handicap. He fights bare-handed, unless his opponent is a particularly capable fighter,” Ujun explained.

A monster indeed.

The other day, Mister Love Letters had been beaten by a farmer. Today, a bare-handed opponent. His pride must have been in tatters. He’d done it to himself, though, so Maomao had scant sympathy. Instead she set about preparing painkillers, but she didn’t hurry.

Once they were done treating Mister Love Letters, Ujun left again, politely giving Mister Love Letters his shoulder to lean on. Maomao watched the people-pleasing young man go, then returned to the medical office, where Dr. Li heaved a sigh.

“This is getting to be a lot of trouble,” he said.

“How so, sir?”

Dr. Li scratched his head. “The fighting among the soldiers has gotten bad recently, right? The higher-ups have instructed us to get the story from both sides—the injured party and the person who inflicted the injury. Even if it was just a training incident.”

“Well, we just heard one side. Where’s the problem?”

If Lishu had been the source of the argument, it was understandable why Basen had gotten involved.

“I like to think I understand something about Master Basen, at least a little bit,” Maomao said. “I suspect he could never have ignored a slight against a young woman, let alone a former high consort.”

Maomao put this in the way that seemed the most discreet. In fact, Basen was in love with Lishu, and his sister had even worked on the U clan to bring up the possibility of marriage—but there was no need to tell an outsider like Dr. Li all of that.

“We’ll still have to write it up, but...Master Basen, huh? We can’t exactly bring him in for an interview,” said the doctor.

Maomao didn’t respond, but she had a thought. Her personal impression of Basen wasn’t that frightening. He was the son of the diligent lover of all things cute, Gaoshun, and very much cowed by his father—as well as by his mother, and his older sister; meanwhile, his sister-in-law teased him relentlessly. He could be like a bear in a man’s clothing, charging straight ahead, but if you didn’t bother him, he wouldn’t bother you.

So why does Dr. Li look like he’s bracing himself for disaster?

Maomao might be puzzled, but all most people saw of Basen was that he was one of the elite who served the Imperial younger brother.

“Do you really think I should be talking to him directly?” Dr. Li said.

Come to think of it, Dr. Li didn’t have much contact with Master Basen.

During their time in the western capital, Dr. Li had mostly been at the clinic. Basen had visited the place once, but had been acting on behalf of Jinshi, who had supposedly been there to comfort the patients. As Jinshi’s representative, Basen had been effectively playing the part of an Imperial family member, so it was understandable that Dr. Li might want to keep his distance.

Okay, so he probably didn’t seem as...approachable as usual that day.

“I don’t think you have to worry so much about him,” Maomao offered. “If you tell him it’s a work matter, he won’t twist your arm off or anything.”

“If he’s apt to twist anyone’s arm off, let’s give him Tianyu.”

“Tianyu? Master Basen might twist his 
head
 off,” Maomao replied. Dr. Li made the funniest jokes sometimes, she thought—but his eyes weren’t laughing.

“In general, the only people who can speak to members of a named clan on equal terms are high-level bureaucrats or other named clanfolk,” Dr. Li said.

“But didn’t you comport yourself with considerable authority toward those two earlier, doctor?”

True, the young men might not have actually held the characters 
U
 or 
Shin
, but they were members of named clans nonetheless.

“Whether or not they come from distinguished families, when I’m providing medical treatment, I outrank them. Dr. Liu always tells us, remember? Never let a patient think they can take you lightly when they’re under your care.”

That was good advice, Maomao acknowledged. You couldn’t let yourself be scared off of giving appropriate medical treatment just because a layperson gave you grief about it.

“Nonetheless, I can’t believe the way that boy acted. I’ve heard that the U clan’s status has nose-dived since Lady Lishu left the rear palace, but still—to take such an attitude even toward Master Basen...” Dr. Li sighed as he cleaned up their tools. He might be brawny now, but he was still very dedicated, and could be quite sympathetic to people. He was a hard worker himself, albeit in a slightly different way from Gaoshun.

“If you’ll pardon my asking, sir, are you married?” Maomao said, hoping the question was not too abrupt.

“No, but I am betrothed—my parents chose the match.”

“I see, sir.”

That’s too bad.

Empress Gyokuyou’s chief lady-in-waiting, Hongniang, was older than Dr. Li, but still a perfect match in Maomao’s opinion—but she wouldn’t even get to bring it up.

“And you think Master Basen has more than just physical challenges standing against him?”

“Yeah. The Ma clan serve the Imperial family directly as bodyguards. Instead of having formal ranks, they simply always serve their masters. But some fools confuse having no rank for having no talent, and try to start fights with them.”

“Sounds like such fools would be lucky to get away with some broken ribs—they could end up with broken heads,” Maomao said as she put the last of the bandages in the cabinet. Dr. Li was proving quite voluble today. “Um, Dr. Li?” she said.

She watched as the physician got out some paper to write his report. He tried to slide it toward her—it seemed to be an attempt to “just happen” to let her see what was written there, but Dr. Li wasn’t cut out for these little charades.

“Is it possible, sir, that you don’t 
want
 to go interview Master Basen in order to write your report?”

“W-Well, no, it’s not that...” Dr. Li said, but he couldn’t quite bring himself to look Maomao in the eye.

“Are you 
scared
 to visit Master Basen, sir?”

“Well, you know, if my work demanded it, I would go...”

He didn’t sound very eager, however.

Maomao clapped her hands. “If you ordered me to, sir, I could go on your behalf.”

“Oh! You would do that?” He sounded like he’d thought she would never ask.

If she had been dealing with anyone else, Maomao might have tried to wring a few extra favors out of them for this, but this was Dr. Li. She already owed him quite a bit; she could do this for him.

“But of course, sir,” she said.

Once in a while, even Maomao could simply, earnestly do as she was asked. Once in a while.