“Have you no attendants? What happened to that lady-in-waiting who used to serve you?” Basen asked, shaken to see Lishu’s reduced circumstances—almost as shaken as he was to have Lishu right here in front of him.

“You mean Kanan? I released her from my service. She has her entire future ahead of her; she shouldn’t waste it here with me. I asked His Majesty to arrange a good match for her.” Lishu smiled and glanced down, her long eyelashes fluttering.

Basen clenched his fist. “Then you... You’re here alone?”

“You mustn’t worry. I have an old lady to look after me.”

“Just one?”

“Yes. I have no more need for heavy outfits or elaborate hair ornaments, after all.”

To Basen, Lishu’s words carried an air of self-recrimination—and yet, her expression was as clear as a cloudless sky. Basen had never been the best at guessing what a woman might have been thinking, and right now he had no idea what to say or do. Lishu was as retiring and as charming as ever, and appeared to be hard at work despite circumstances far beneath her station. Her slim fingers were caked with mud.

“This is no place for someone like you, Lady Lishu. I’ll talk to them, convince them to give you better work!” Basen said. It was the most helpful thing he could think of.

Lishu, however, shook her head. “N-No, thank you. I’m grateful for the thought, b-but these circumstances...”

“Yes? What about them?” Basen’s question was all but interrupted by quacking. He turned to find himself confronting several dozen ducks. “Gwuh?!”

The birds surrounded Basen, peering at him with their heads cocked in puzzlement. He couldn’t shake the sense that they were taking stock of him.

Then the ducks waddled over to Lishu, nuzzling up to her. She patted their wings. “A-At first, I was sure I couldn’t possibly raise ducks,” she told him. “But I’ve looked after these sweethearts since they hatched, and they think of me as their mother. 
Laoshi
 t-told me that’s just the way ducks are...”

When he heard the words 
ducks
, 
hatched
, and 
Laoshi
, he finally realized Lishu was the disciple the old man had been talking about!

“Lady Lishu... You mean, you...?”

“Yes. I was told to teach you about hatching ducks.” Her stutter had vanished; perhaps she was more comfortable surrounded by the animals. “Ahem... Master Basen?” she said.

“Y-Yes? What is it?” he asked, unconsciously straightening up as if addressing one of his superiors.

Lishu glanced at him, then picked up a handful of her skirt. “I kn-know it’s a little late to be asking this, but how are your injuries?”

Basen had completely forgotten that the last time Lishu had seen him, he’d been one big pile of cuts, bruises, and broken bones.

“Oh, I’m used to getting a little injured. You don’t have to worry about me,” he said. Privately, he was overjoyed that she was concerned about him (even if that concern was only natural), but he was also a bit embarrassed. He realized Lishu had never exactly seen him at his best.

“But you suffered all that for my sake... And I never even got to thank you...”

“Lady Lishu...” Basen felt strange, simultaneously relaxed and anxious to be with this young woman. He shook his head: no, this wouldn’t do! He had business to attend to. “Well, Lady Lishu. If you would be so kind as to instruct me.”

“Y-Yes, of course,” she said, but she sounded almost disappointed.

There was a story passed down which related that long ago, when there had been a plague of locusts, the ducks had combated it by eating all the bugs. It was a legend, of course, not a serious model for policy, but at the same time, legends often contain a seed of truth. Ducks did eat insects. As omnivores, they frequently ate humans’ leftover food, but during plagues of locusts they could eat those too. A few even preferred eating bugs and sought them out.

Besides, having more livestock could only benefit the farmers. Therefore it had been decided that ducks would be distributed to the farming villages—but therein lay a problem.

How would they 
get
 these ducks that they were going to give out? Ducks were living things; one didn’t just snap one’s fingers and make more of them.

“Here, like this. The eggs should always be kept slightly warmer than human body temperature. You can’t just leave them lying there either; you have to turn them once in a while.” Lishu gently turned one of the eggs over in demonstration. It sat on a bed of straw, underneath which was soil as soft as mulch. “The eggs won’t hatch if they get too hot or too cold, so Laoshi told me I should learn the temperature by touch alone.”

“By touch alone?”

“Y-Yes. Also, they need some humidity.”

“Humidity?”

It was sticky as summer in the shed, even though outside it was cold enough for one’s breath to fog. The shed was so full of steam it was almost hard to see.

“There’s a hot spring nearby, so w-we—we get our hot water there.” Lishu rolled back the rush mat on the shed floor to reveal a channel with water, no doubt quite hot, flowing through it. “If it gets too cold, we light a fire in the oven. We have to monitor the eggs constantly, so three of us work in shifts.”

It certainly did seem like too much for one person to handle alone. Even with two others to help, Basen worried that it must be all too much for Lishu, who had spent so much of her life as a sheltered princess.

“Are you sure you’re all right here, Lady Lishu?” he asked.

“A-All right how?”

“Well, a young woman of your station shouldn’t have to be 
here
. You could be somewhere with ladies-in-waiting attending upon you. You may be a wayfarer, but that doesn’t change the fact that you are a princess of the U clan.”

The Emperor, Basen had heard, doted upon Lishu like his own daughter. And anyway, having been caught up in the White Lady’s schemes, she was really a victim herself. In his opinion, she deserved better than this.

“Master Basen...are you 
worried
 about me?”

“W-Worried?! No! It’s simply your right, milady...”

“O-Oh. N-No, of course. I shouldn’t have assumed you would be concerned about the likes of me...”

“That’s not what I meant at all!”

Basen cursed his mouth, which couldn’t seem to string two coherent words together. If the Moon Prince were here, he would have known what to say. Basen, however, could only look at the wall of the shed and feel miserable.

“Master Basen, a-are you quite all right?” Lishu peered at him with worry. No, no—Basen was the one who was worried.

“Lady Lishu...” he began. “You’ve suffered enough. You can go ahead and live the life you want now.”

Even Basen wasn’t sure what he was saying. The life she wanted? What was that? Basen’s life was duty to the Imperial family, protecting the Moon Prince. What he wanted didn’t come into it. And he had the temerity to lecture Lishu about choosing her own life? The words sounded hollow in his ears.

“Master Basen...” Lishu seemed like she could hardly speak.

Of course not. She must have been too scandalized. Too deeply offended by the “advice” Basen dispensed so cavalierly. He resolved to learn what he had come here to learn as fast as he could and then go home.

“I... I don’t know what I want yet. What I want has never mattered. I was never allowed to choose my own life.”

“Then start now.”

“I will. And what I want is to...to go on doing this for a while longer.” She squatted down and turned another egg.

Her clothes were filthy, her hair plain, and she wore no makeup at all. Yet on her face was something Basen had never seen there before: a small smile.