Chapter 5: Spring Comes to Basen (Part 2)

He’d thought of the young woman as like a little flower, gossamer and delicate. He’d been afraid she might break if he touched her.

Now, as Basen rode along on his horse, he looked at the side of the road, where a small blue flower was blooming. He had always thought of flowers as things to be cherished and loved, but he saw now that they grew on their own, with or without anyone to dote upon them.

He turned toward the farming village, his breath white in the air. A wagon loaded with ducks in cages clattered along beside him. When the eggs had hatched, he had raised the ducklings until they were big enough, and now he would take them to the villages. How many times had he done this now?

“Distributing ducks is beneath you, sir,” a soldier said.

This wasn’t the first time one of his subordinates had objected to his going on these trips. They might even think it was a waste—as the Moon Prince had warned him they might. Basen was well aware of how they felt. “I’ve been given a job, and I’m going to do it. If you don’t like this assignment, perhaps I can find you another one.”

“N-No, sir,” the soldier said, and neither he nor the others spoke up again—though they continued to share rueful looks. Even Basen, oblivious as he could be, could imagine what they said about him behind his back. He was the pampered second son of the Ma clan. The upstart from a branch family. Son of a eunuch. And more besides. Yes, his father Gaoshun came from a branch family of the clan—and to serve the Moon Prince, he had cast away the Ma name and spent nearly seven years pretending to be a eunuch.

Basen hated the idea of his father being belittled, but what would it gain him to mete out punishment here? The Ma clan were confidants of the Imperial family, and he would only be accused of abusing his position.

Basen had made the mistake of becoming emotional more than once before. On one occasion, an older soldier in his division had complained that he wasn’t being treated as well as Basen and claimed the younger man was being shown favoritism. Basen had lost his temper and fought the man in a “practice match” that was hardly less than a duel.

His opponent had ended up with three broken ribs and a broken right arm. Thankfully, none of the ribs had pierced a lung, and the arm had snapped cleanly and would heal. Nonetheless, the man had left the army. Perhaps he was humiliated by having been beaten by the younger, less experienced Basen—or perhaps he had simply never engaged in training fierce enough to break bones.

The Moon Prince was never less than committed, even when training. He could deflect Basen’s sword strokes with his blade. And Gaoshun, he would strike back mercilessly whenever he saw an opening in Basen’s guard. When Basen had been younger, even his older sister had been better at swordsmanship than him. He was physically strong, but never thought of himself as much of a swordsman. He had been good enough, though, to bring down that soldier, who had been very proud of his own strength.

He’d already known at that point that he had to be careful how much of his strength he used when dealing with women—but on that day he learned the same was true when he was facing men. He discovered his opponents were quite breakable. He never forgot the lesson: no matter what might be said to or of him, he must never be too eager to react with force.

“I can’t go around thrashing people...and I’d thrash them in a second,” he muttered to himself as he took a duck off the wagon and handed it to a farmer, along with a stern warning not to kill the animal. “We’re giving you these ducks as a pair. We’ll buy the eggs at a high price, and we recommend you breed more ducks too, but immediately killing them for food would be a mistake. You hear me?”

Some of these farmers already kept ducks, or had in the past, so thankfully Basen didn’t have to teach all of them how to raise the animals from scratch. He made sure they knew that the ducks would eat bugs and that this should be their primary diet, but also that if there weren’t enough of them, the ducks could eat leftovers, vegetable scraps, or even grass.

He could give the people all the warnings and advice he liked, but he had no way of knowing if they would listen. They might have thought he was something of a quack himself.

Just when he had made the rounds of the villages and thought he was done passing out animals, he heard a noisy quacking from the wagon. He discovered one young fledgling was still with him.

“Skwak!”

“You again, Jofu?” Basen gave the fledgling a look of annoyance. This particular bird had a black spot on her beak and seemed to think Basen was her mother, a profound mistake if there ever was one. Evidently this duck had hatched on the day of his reunion with Lishu, and Basen happened to be the first thing she saw. She followed him everywhere he went whenever he showed up at Red Plum Village, so he took to calling her Jofu, as if that were her name—although it really just meant “duck.”

Now he said to the duck, “You know what has to happen, right, Jofu? You’re going to go to some farm village, where you’ll be able to deal a crushing blow to those awful locusts! You can’t follow me around forever. Now’s your chance to build up the body a good soldier needs. Eat grains, eat grass, eat insects, and grow big!”

“Peep!” Jofu said and spread her wings. She almost appeared to be listening to him, but a duck is, well, a duck. Eventually, she would forget she had ever known Basen.

Or so he’d assumed. As he continued to take his young birds to the farming villages and then raise another group of chicks, Jofu was always with him, never staying behind in the villages. Basen and Jofu went out together and, inevitably, they came back together. More than once Basen tried to leave his fledgling in one of the farming villages, but each time Jofu would bite the farmers and climb onto the head of Basen’s horse, where she would flap her wings to be taken home. Jofu also got a beakful of the hands of several soldiers who tried to manhandle her. It got so bad that some soldiers began referring to the duck as respectfully as any senior officer.

Jofu’s feathers went from yellow to white, but the black spot on her beak remained, as did her tendency to savage strangers like a wild dog while following Basen around like a loyal one.

Today, too, Basen returned with Jofu riding on his shoulder. He would have to go to Red Plum Village to drop the bird off.

“That’s right...” Basen looked to the west, where the sun was setting, turning the sky red. The date had been set for the Moon Prince’s departure for the western capital. Basen’s next visit to Red Plum Village would most likely be his last. He would leave with another crop of ducks and distribute them to more villages on his own way west.

Word was that the westward expedition was likely to be a long one this time. A few months at least, the better part of a year more likely.

“Six months or more,” he mumbled with a sigh. He dismounted his horse as he passed through the gates of Red Plum Village. Being here always put him on edge. His heart raced despite the idyllic scenes of livestock roaming in the fields.

He told his subordinates to take care of the wagon, then headed for the duck shed. He seemed to walk quicker the closer he got.

He couldn’t help looking for Lishu, even though he knew she wasn’t always there when he came. Each time he saw her, so small and so delicate yet standing resolutely on her own two feet, he felt something very strange, a simultaneous rush of relief and anxiety.

And today? Would she be there today?

“M-Master Basen?”

His heart leaped. There was Lishu, in her plain clothes, holding a basket. Jofu jumped down off his shoulder and waddled toward the shed.

Basen pressed a hand to his chest and tried to order his pounding heart to be quiet. “Lady Lishu. I’d like to make my report to you, if I may.” He took out a map and circled the villages he had visited that day. With this, he had canvassed nearly all the frontier farm villages.

Red Plum Village wasn’t the only place raising ducks; there were others as well. The work would have to be able to go on after Basen left.

“It looks like you’ve taken them everywhere they could be needed. What will you do next?” Lishu asked, giving Basen a glance.

“Milady. I plan to take the next group with me and head west. I expect this will be my last visit here.”

Lishu blinked. “What?”

“My official duty is to serve as the Moon Prince’s bodyguard. He’s going to the western capital, so I must go with him.”

“He’s going again?”

The Moon Prince’s journey west had been made public at this point, but the news seemed not to have reached Lishu in her seclusion here. She knew of his first trip to the western capital, though, which had happened about this time last year, when she had still been a consort.

“I remember... That was where I first met you,” Basen said, although it pained him to imagine how he must have seemed to her at the time.

“Met me, and saved me—for the first time, but not the last.”

There had been a banquet at the western capital. A lion brought in for entertainment had attacked Lishu. Basen remembered her cowering under a table. Rumors called her a vile, shameless woman of no chastity, but all he’d seen was a frightened, lonely girl the world had never treated well.

Basen worried how she would get by in the future. Her mother was dead, while her father had only ever seen her as a political pawn—and he had been stripped of his station at the same time Lishu had come to this village.

Would she be all right? That worry had plagued Basen ever since Lishu left the court. Meeting her here had only added to his fears.

“...with me?” He was so lost in thought that he almost didn’t hear the words coming out of his own mouth.

“Wha?”

“Would you consider leaving Red Plum Village with me?” he repeated. Even he didn’t know what he thought he was saying. His face was beet red, and he couldn’t bring himself to look at Lishu.

Lishu, meanwhile, looked studiously at the ground. And was also blushing.

It must be his fault for having said something so outrageous. Might it be possible that time would turn back for him, just a few minutes?

Basen felt his breath grow ragged. “N-Never mind! It was nothing!”

“Nothing?” Lishu gave him a probing look, and the flush in her cheeks began to subside.

“A-Anyway, I have more reports to make! If you’ll excuse me!”

With that, Basen left. He never did look at Lishu’s face.

The moment Basen got home, he shut himself in his room and hung his head. “What am I doing?” he groaned, throwing himself across his desk and alternating between holding his head in his hands and tearing at his hair.

The door opened with a clatter. “What 
are
 you doing?”

“Sister?!”

It was Basen’s older sister, Maamei. She was already married, but still living in the main Ma household. Her husband, Basen’s brother-in-law, was of Ma blood himself, and, with Basen’s father, was also responsible for His Majesty’s safety. If it was decided that Basen was not suitable for the family headship, the position would most likely pass to his brother-in-law. Basen, in fact, was perfectly happy to be able to focus his full attention on guarding the Moon Prince, but he couldn’t let that show.

At present, Basen’s grandfather was the nominal head of the family, but in practice most of the work of running the clan was handled by Basen’s mother, Taomei. It was all rather complicated, but in essence the successor from the main household had been disinherited, and Gaoshun had been adopted into the main family from the branch house. Taomei had once been engaged to marry the disowned successor and was already well entrenched in the clan’s day-to-day business, so she simply went on and married Basen’s father. Hence why she was six years older than Gaoshun.

Taomei had then taught Maamei the basics of the clan’s dealings, and Basen’s older sister would presumably take Taomei’s place someday. The Ma clan were the bodyguards of the Imperial family, meaning they could die at any time—so the clan took a pragmatic approach to succession. If Basen died, someone else would take his place.

As the Moon Prince’s guard, Basen rarely returned home as such. The unorthodox assignment he’d been given recently, however, meant he saw much more of Maamei, which could be a little awkward.

“What brings you here?” he asked.

“Now, is that any way to speak to a 
kind
 older sister who just wants to see how her little brother is doing?”

Basen and Maamei seemed to have very different ideas of what it meant to be kind.

“On that subject, is it just me, or do you sort of...stink?” Maamei very deliberately pinched her nose. This was nothing new to Basen; she had always complained when he smelled sweaty, but these days he suspected it was something else.

“I think that would be the ducks,” he said. Spend enough time with fowl and it was hard not to start smelling like them.

“Ducks? Ahh, yes, one of those anti-locust measures, yes? Do you think it will really help?”

“Sister, we’re groping in the dark here. I’ll thank you not to belittle our efforts.”

“Goodness, pardon me,” she said, although she didn’t seem to feel very guilty. She started looking around Basen’s room.

“Sister, if you don’t need anything, then would you kindly get out?”

“Well! When did you get a tongue like that?” Maamei sat on the bed, evidently disinclined to listen to him. The bed was one of the few pieces of furniture in his chamber; he kept furnishings to a minimum because he trained here as well. “You could stand to have a little more...
stuff
 in here,” Maamei remarked.

“No. It would only get in the way.”

“Hmm. Yes... This is a bachelor’s room if I ever saw one.” His sister’s words were always sharp as any sword.

“What’s a man’s love life got to do with his room?” Basen said with a scowl.

“Everything. Besides, you’re certainly the right age to be thinking about a wife. Don’t you have any good prospects?”

“S-Sister! You can’t just drop that subject on me!” He sprang up from his chair so fast it fell over.

“I might point out that, at least for the time being, you’re expected to become the next head of the clan. Our uncle raised the possibility that you should take a wife at least for form’s sake. There’s no telling when you might die, so it would be nice if you would leave a few children behind.”

“Ch-Ch-Children! But th-that would mean—”

“Ah, yes. Don’t worry, no one is expecting much from you. You know that’s why we had to push Baryou and Chue to pick up the slack. I’d like to see at least three more potential successors, but...maybe that’s asking too much. It’s really not a good look for you, though, sitting back and letting your relatives do all the work. You need a wife, even if only for show. Otherwise no one will take you seriously—that’s Uncle’s assessment.”

“I hear what you’re saying...” The subject made Basen’s head hurt. “You want me to hurry up and get married, don’t you? Just like the others.”

“Not at all!”

“What?” Basen looked at her, at a loss as to what else she could possibly mean.