Chapter 7: The Farm Village (Part 2)

Lahan’s Brother stared fixedly at the earth. He reached down to check how it felt, and even put a bit of it in his mouth, then spat it out again.

“What do you think?” Maomao asked, watching him work.

A farmer’s day started early. The sun was only just cresting the horizon, but Lahan’s Brother was already up and about. Maomao had been so tired she couldn’t actually sleep well, and then she’d heard the sounds of the farmers up first thing in the morning.

They were in the fields of the farming village where they had arrived the day before. The previous night, they’d asked the headman for permission to come out here, so here Lahan’s Brother was without further ado.

Wheat was beginning to sprout in the field. Maomao wondered if the sheep and goats would eat it, but other than when they were put out to pasture, the animals were safely ensconced within a fence, so maybe it worked out.

“I think the soil is all right, and they keep it watered well. If anything, one could wish for slightly poorer soil around here.”

“It’s better if the soil 
isn’t
 as nutritious?” Chue asked, poking her head over.

And to think, she can’t have gone to sleep earlier than I did last night.

She’d returned sometime in the wee hours—her negotiations must’ve gone long. In spite of it, she seemed perfectly energetic.

Maomao figured it was best not to ask what exactly she had been negotiating about. Chue had insisted Maomao treat her the same way she always did, so Maomao kept quiet.

Lahan’s Brother stood up and surveyed the field. “Unlike most vegetables, potatoes actually grow best if the soil isn’t too rich. Sweet potato plants, if there are too many nutrients in the soil, they just grow a bunch of leaves, and no potato. White potatoes become prone to disease.”

“Ah, yes, of course. By the way, bread by itself isn’t much of a breakfast, so I’m going to make some congee too.”

“Please do, that would be wonder—”

Chue was peeling a sweet potato.

“What do you think you’re doing?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, snatching it away from her faster than lightning.

“Awww,” Chue said, twirling around theatrically.

“This is seed stock! For 
planting
! Not for eating!”

“Yeah, but there’s nothing but wheat around here! There’s hardly even any rice. I thought some potato would bulk it up a bit.”

“Potato congee 
does
 sound good.” Maomao realized her stomach was growling. A nice, hardy congee would be better than bread to start the day.

“We’re going to plant this! You can’t eat it!” Lahan’s Brother said as if scolding a child. He sounded strangely like Frizzy-Glasses. Maybe it was because they were brothers. A nearby sheep looked up and gave a reproving “Baa!” as if to say “Keep it down!”

“Argh... I won’t be able to use this for stock anymore,” Lahan’s Brother groaned, looking miserably at the half-peeled potato.

“It’ll make a delicious breakfast, then!”

“Sigh... I guess it had better.”

“Not by itself, though! I’ll need at least three more!”

“No! Absolutely not!” Lahan’s Brother snapped, stopping Chue before she could do any more mischief. Maomao’s fists clenched. Truly, she saw, this most ordinary man had his place to shine: it was when quipping at someone that Lahan’s Brother came into his own.

“Okay, let’s forget about breakfast for a second. Do you think we can grow crops here?” Personally, Maomao would have liked to enjoy observing a bit more of this back-and-forth, but if she didn’t keep things moving they would never get anywhere.

Lahan’s Brother crossed his arms. “This place is a lot like Shihoku Province. Not as far north as that, but weatherwise, it’s more suited to white potatoes than sweet potatoes. It’s colder than Kaou Province.”

“I guess it does feel chilly. Funny, I thought it was pretty warm in the western capital.”

In fact, my ears hurt a little
, Maomao thought, pinching her nose and blowing to balance them out.

“We’re a lot higher above sea level here than in the western capital.”

“I guess so.”

“Are we really?” Chue took a map out of the folds of her robe. “Miss Chue is an excellent map reader, but this one doesn’t list the elevations. No wonder the air seems so thin here!”

“I know because my father told me all about it,” the normal person said, puffing out his chest.

“The temperature stays high in the western capital because the desert is so close. Around here, it’s a bit cold even during the day,” Chue said.

Maomao was only now starting to appreciate, on a visceral level, how different the climate could be even within a single province. “You really don’t think the potatoes will grow?”

“I’m not sure. For sweet potatoes, temperatures like what Kaou Province gets in spring and early summer are ideal, and there’s nothing quite like that anywhere here, in the desert or on the heights. It might be worth planting some just to see, but I think regular potatoes might be easier to grow. There’s just one problem...”

Lahan’s Brother looked downright stormy. There was clearly something about this situation that he didn’t like. Suddenly he lunged toward the middle of the field and began stomping on the wheat, which was still hardly taller than grass—maybe the farmers had been late planting it.

“What’s that you’re doing? I think they’re going to be very mad at you!” Chue said, although she only stood and watched.

“I’m the one who’s mad! Look how few offshoots there are on this wheat! They haven’t stomped it down at all!”

“Stomped it?” Maomao cocked her head, puzzled, as she watched Lahan’s Brother crisscross the field like an agriculturally inclined crab.

“You have to tread on the wheat to encourage tillers. It makes the roots stronger too, and the wheat more resilient. But look at this field! They haven’t been out here once! And not in any of the other fields either! More tillers means more ears! More ears means more harvest! Yet look at these pathetic crops!”

“Wow. There’s a real farmer for you.”

“Who’s a farmer?!”

Uh... Who else?

Lahan’s Brother continued his ridiculous crabwalk across the wheat field. He might not know it, like it, or want to admit it, but he was a farmer through and through. Chue must have decided the wheat treading looked like fun, because she joined Lahan’s Brother in traipsing back and forth around the field. At which point it became clear that if Maomao didn’t join them, this would never end.

They were still crab-walking as the villagers began to wake up, then began to crowd and gawk, observing the visitors’ bizarre behavior from a safe distance.

Basen popped out from among the crowd. “What are you...doing?” he asked. Personally, Maomao didn’t want to be interrogated about strange behavior by a man with a duck on his shoulder.

“You can’t call what they do around here 
farming
!” Lahan’s Brother exclaimed from his place on the carpet.

“Please keep it down during meals, okay?” Chue said. She was stuffing bread into her cheeks like a squirrel.

Maomao and the others had gone back to their tent and decided to start by getting some breakfast. There was flatbread carrying skewers of sheep meat, and baozi. In the fireplace was a stewpot boiling with a soup of wheat and sheep meat. They were allegedly drinking tea, but it wasn’t like any tea Maomao had ever had. The color was lighter than most and it was made with goat’s milk instead of hot water.

Looks like dairy products and animal meat are the staples here. Not a lot of vegetables.
 There would probably have been even fewer if this weren’t a farming village.

They all ate together in the large tent. Chue’s congee wasn’t ready in time, so it would be dinner. The peeled potato had been cut thin and was cooking on the hearth.

Basen sat in front of the hearth, so Chue, Maomao, and Lahan’s Brother all got to sit somewhere warm. The others who had come with them, including the soldiers serving as their bodyguards, sat around them in a sort of ring.

The soup was hot but tasted weak; Maomao got some salt from Chue and put a pinch in her bowl. The skewers were far more satisfying than anything you could get from a street stall in the Imperial capital. The bread that served as a tray was tough; you had to break off bits of it and dip it in the soup. Put some warmed-up cheese on top of it, and it was delicious.

As for vegetables, there were a few in the soup and packed into the baozi, but the quantity left something to be desired.

“
Why
 don’t they know how to cultivate the wheat? I’m telling you, that’s the question! Do you realize how much better the harvest would be if they stomped the crop?”

“I’m sure you’re very right. If you’re not going to eat your cheese, can I have it?”

“Hey! I haven’t even answered and you’re already eating it!”

Chue had snatched the cheese from Lahan’s Brother’s plate in a single swift motion.

She doesn’t have to do that.
 Cheese was one thing there was plenty of. She seemed to be taking from Lahan’s Brother just to get under his skin.

As Maomao and the others ate, they discussed what had happened in the fields earlier that day.

“We’re supposed to be out here for an inspection of the farms. So what did you see, Lahan’s Brother?” asked Basen, who already seemed to regard “Lahan’s Brother” as his name. He might normally have been more punctilious about asking what he was really called—it was almost as if there was some supernatural force at work.

“I’m not... I told you, my name is—”

“You brought those seed potatoes. Presumably you mean to plant them,” Maomao interrupted.

“I told you, Lahan said to plant them if there was anywhere good. And since he asked me, I feel like I have to see his request through, even if he is my no-account younger brother...”

He’s a surprisingly stand-up guy for someone with such a terrible family.

Nonetheless, Lahan’s Brother exuded something that made one want to mess with him.

“Okay, so you mentioned the wheat fields. Is there some sort of problem?”

“Big ones! Do these people here actually believe they’ve set up those fields properly?” Lahan’s Brother took a slug of soup.

“I admit I’m no expert, but do they really deserve to be talked about like that just because they didn’t do this wheat stomping or whatever?” Basen asked.

Maomao agreed with him. Wheat stomping improved the crop, no doubt, but it wasn’t as if the wheat wouldn’t grow without it. Maybe these people were busy with other things, and wheat stomping just fell by the wayside. Raising livestock was more important in I-sei Province, anyway.

“It’s not just the stomping. Their planting methods are all over the place. I understand that they’ve done direct sowing, but you need to at least space the seeds evenly! That’s not even to mention that they started planting too late in the season. And they need more fertilizer—lots more! The soil color was so uneven!”

“Wow, you really know your stuff. Potato?”

“I do not 
know my stuff
! And I’m sick of eating potatoes!”

Maomao had no such objections; she was happy to take the baked sweet potato from Chue. It was perfectly sweet and delicious on its own—but spread a little butter on it, and it took on an extra dimension of richness. Chue evidently shared Maomao’s appreciation, because she discreetly took a few of them, cut them up, and started cooking them.

Maomao understood what Lahan’s Brother was getting at, but even she could think of a possible rejoinder. “Don’t farming methods vary from region to region? Maybe with them raising so much livestock here, wheat isn’t considered that important. Why develop refined techniques for working with a secondary crop?”

“You’re not wrong. I’m saying that the problem here isn’t ignorance, it’s indifference. They’ll never get much of a harvest to speak of with what they’re doing now. These people 
know
 the techniques, they just aren’t bothering to use them.”

“Because they have other sources of income, right? Is it that big a deal?” Basen asked, sipping some milk tea.

“That’s what I’m saying!”

“You mean, why would they go out of their way to do 
bad
 farming when they can just make money other ways, is that it?” Maomao said. She thought she saw what Lahan’s Brother was getting at.

“Y...Yes. That’s what I mean,” Lahan’s Brother said, relaxing somewhat now that he finally felt someone understood him.

“I don’t get it,” said Basen.

“This isn’t making sense to Miss Chue either. Explain in a way she can understand,” said Chue.

“If they can feed themselves entirely with nomadic grazing, why not do that?” Maomao said. “Settling down in one place to plant fields just makes it that much harder to raise livestock. Which implies there was some advantage to settled living that made the trade-off worthwhile.”

“Yeah. You’d run yourself ragged, trying to do this kind of thing while you traveled,” Basen observed.

“That’s right. It’s hardly unusual for nomadic herdspeople to settle down and become farmers—including, it would seem, the owner of this tent. So did they become farmers because they had no other choice, or because they thought there was some specific benefit to it? If they did it voluntarily, for the advantages, wouldn’t you expect them to be more interested in improving their harvests?”

Lahan’s Brother nodded assiduously at Maomao’s explanation, although the other two continued to look baffled.

“I guess I’m not much for explaining. Does that make any sense?” she asked.

“I mean... I get that something is off, here,” Basen said.

“It’s hard to put into words, isn’t it?” Chue said.

Maomao groaned and took a bite of her potato, which had gone cold. There was nothing else remotely sweet around here, so the potato’s sweetness was that much more pronounced.

Just then, Maomao looked toward the entrance of the tent. A couple of kids were peering in at the visitors with interest. A boy and a girl around ten years of age, probably siblings.

“Want some?” Maomao asked.

The kids looked a little intimidated, but reached out for the sweet potato, which they’d never seen before. They each took a bite, and their eyes went wide.

“Can we have more?” they asked.

“You may. But maybe you could answer some questions for me first,” said Maomao. Since the kids had come right to them, this would be the perfect chance to dig up some information.

After breakfast, they toured the village with the kids.

“Are your families looking after the fields like they should? They’re not cutting corners, are they?” Chue asked the siblings, not mincing words.

The brother and sister shared a look.

“But you can’t cut corners in a field, can you?”

“Yeah, can you?”

“I don’t think kids this young are going to understand what you’re getting at, Miss Chue.”

“You think not, Miss Maomao?” She gave the kids another cooked potato.

“The grown-ups say they can get money for starting fields. I don’t know if that’s what it means to cut corners, though.”

“Money? You mean from selling the wheat?”

The older brother shook his head. “Nuh-uh. Um... They say you get the money even if you don’t grow the crops, so life’s easy...”

“Hey! You kids! We told you to stay away from the guests!” one of the adults roared, and the siblings ran off, frightened—although not enough to drop their potatoes.

“No! Wait!” Maomao called after them, but it was too late. They were already gone.

So they get paid even if they don’t grow anything?
 That sounded fishy. If it was true, it would explain why they didn’t feel any compulsion to look after the crops.

“I’m sorry. Did those children do something wrong?” Maomao asked.

“No, nothing,” the villager said, although he continued to give Maomao and the others an apologetic look. In that case, Maomao wished he wouldn’t have shouted. He’d driven away two very pliant young informers. Maomao would have liked to ask them a little more about the money supposedly in those fields.

It doesn’t 
look
 like they’re hiding anything
, she thought as they continued to walk around the village. To all appearances, it was quiet, peaceful. Unremarkable. There were no commercial shops to speak of; people mostly supported themselves. They said a merchant came by about once every ten days. The villagers proved to be kind and friendly. It was hard to imagine they were doing anything wrong.

Maybe the kids just misunderstood something, and now we’re overthinking it.

There was one man, however, who seemed to be taking this far harder than Maomao was.

“Poor
 Gege
! You look ready to smash something. Try putting on a smile!” said Chue, ever ready to give Lahan’s Brother some grief.

Lahan’s Brother scowled and looked at the village fields. He carried a bag full of seed potatoes. Nominally they were here on a tour of inspection, but he’d come along seeking a good opportunity to introduce this new crop—and if he was going to give people something new to grow, no doubt he would have liked them to be a little more interested in growing it.

Lahan’s Brother always vehemently denied being a farmer, yet he was deeply devoted to the agricultural arts. He was your ordinary, good, paradoxical man. He might also have denied being ordinary, but the principle that motivated his behavior seemed as normal as the next person’s.

The world is full of elder sons who aren’t actually interested in inheriting family headship
, Maomao thought, but she figured that if she pointed that out to Lahan’s Brother, he would only get angry.