Chapter 9: Rite and Ritual

Nianzhen took a mouthful of lukewarm goat’s milk to wet his parched throat. Maomao, Basen, and Lahan’s Brother waited in silence.

I didn’t expect to get so much information out of him
, Maomao thought. She would have to try to sort through all he had told them.

She crossed her arms. So more than fifty years ago, Nianzhen and his tribe had destroyed the Windreaders, and several years after that, a major insect plague had occurred. Nianzhen believed the plague had been caused by the loss of the ritual. He’d become a serf, destined to spend the rest of his life performing that ritual. That seemed like a fair summary.

I guess the ritual involves tilling the earth?

It still didn’t quite make sense to Maomao—but it did to someone else.

“Nianzhen? It’s Nianzhen, right? You’re talking about fall plowing, then?”

Maomao and Basen both looked at Lahan’s Brother quizzically—they didn’t recognize that expression.

“It’s exactly what it says—plowing after the harvest in the fall,” he explained.

“And that’s...good? Wouldn’t it be more efficient to plow right before you plant the crops?” Basen asked. Maomao agreed with him.

“I’m aware of a couple of advantages. For one, you can improve the soil by turning it over and putting down paddy straw mushrooms or some other fertilizer, and for another, it helps eliminate eggs laid in the soil by pest insects.”

Maomao’s ears twitched, and she grabbed Lahan’s Brother by the collar. “Say that again!”

“Er, uh, you can put down paddy straw...”

“No, the other one!”

“Eliminating pest insects?”

“Yes, that!” Maomao shook him violently.

“Hey, quit it,” Basen said, holding her back. “You’re choking him!”

Maomao let Lahan’s Brother go.

“Ow! Yeesh! Is it that exciting? It’s a pretty ordinary farming activity,” he said, in the clear belief that this was general knowledge.

“I don’t know if there are a lot of farmers out there as diligent as you!” Maomao rejoined.

“Er... Oh. Uh, you think so?” Lahan’s Brother was clearly having some conflicting feelings. He appreciated the compliment, but it was hard for him to accept.

“Yes, that’s exactly what I’m doing,” Nianzhen broke in. “A quick look around this village probably told you—it doesn’t matter if the people around here know what to do or not; most of them just don’t care to do it. And if knowledge isn’t used, it gets lost.”

Maomao felt a pang. Lahan’s Brother had said the old man was the only one in town trying to keep up a decent field.

“May I ask you something? Are the people here even making an honest effort to raise wheat? It sort of feels like they aren’t, well, trying very hard,” Maomao said, shamelessly cribbing from Lahan’s Brother.

“So,” Nianzhen said, “it’s obvious even to the visitors, is it?”

“Yes, sir. Your field was much prettier than the others.”

Anyway, that’s what a pro farmer told me.

“I’m not trying to be pretty. I’m just trying to get a better harvest, and the field turns out that way. I can tell you, I never thought I would be the only one working myself to the bone out here.”

“Funny how life works out.” Basen’s dig had to hurt. He was a serious and dedicated military man. Maomao could understand why he might take a dim view of someone who had done things that put him at the bottom of the human dung heap, even if it was more than fifty years ago now. He might even be wondering why the man hadn’t been given a harsher punishment.

Maomao had to admit, she couldn’t help wondering the same thing. She knew, though, that executing Nianzhen wouldn’t have changed anything. Because he had been left alive, at least they could talk to him and learn what he knew.

I wonder how Rikuson found out about him.

Maybe, like Maomao, he’d simply walked around this village, and maybe, like Lahan’s Brother, he’d noticed the quality of the fields. Or perhaps he’d heard about Nianzhen from someone in the western capital.

They were talking about criminals who had become serfs fifty years and more before, and had been released from that status long ago. Rikuson was still a fresh face in this area; Maomao doubted he’d come here knowing about them.

Well, asking was quicker than pondering.

“Do you know if Rikuson came to this village because he’d found out about the ritual?”

“Yeah, that’s right. I didn’t think there was anyone left who knew about the ritual. Even the governor doesn’t seem to have heard of it. Rikuson, he said something about an acquaintance mentioning it.” Nianzhen put down the now empty cup of milk and shifted on the hard-looking bed.

“The governor doesn’t know about it? Do you mean Master Gyokuen, sir?”

In his story, Nianzhen had described Gyokuen as an upstart governor.

“Ah, sorry, bad choice of words. Not him. Yeah, Master Gyokuen is the ruler of I-sei Province, but it’s his whelp who’s been running things lately.”

“You mean his son?”

“Yeah, what’s-his-name. Gyoku-ou.”

It seemed a former bandit and former serf was not inclined to show undue respect to the governor. Not that Maomao cared, but Basen appeared to take exception to Nianzhen’s attitude. At least, she told herself, he resisted turning physical with the guy.

“I got the impression that Master Gyoku-ou is well regarded in this village. What’s behind that? Does it have something to do with the ritual?” Maomao asked.

“Hardly. He’s popular, plain and simple. He never punishes the farmers even if there’s a bad harvest. In fact, he’s so generous that if we don’t have enough to eat, he gives to us from the stores. Hell, you can almost get more that way than you would by doing a proper job.”

“Wow, wish I could say that,” Lahan’s Brother piped up.

“Yeah, he’s a real compassionate guy. A lot of the nomads are settling down. They say they’ll be better off as farmers.” Behind Nianzhen’s words, Maomao thought she caught a tone of contempt.

“You’d think such a compassionate leader would want to continue the ritual,” Lahan’s Brother said, setting down his empty cup with a 
tink
.

“Like I said, he doesn’t know the ritual. He doesn’t understand. Even the Yi clan didn’t know exactly what the ritual was or how it worked. What they make me do these days is just a pale imitation, based on the best of their knowledge.”

“So this ritual wasn’t about petitioning the gods at all—it was really a way of preventing insect plagues,” Maomao said.

“That’s what I think. It’s the work me and the other serfs were given to do in exchange for our lives. If we didn’t want to do it, too bad—they forced us. A few guys couldn’t stand it and tried to run away, and a few guys just plain slacked off, but the authorities caught them and hanged them to a man. What did they expect, when they’d spat on their chance to get off lightly? When you’re told that you plow the fields or you die, then you plow like your life depends on it.”

What Nianzhen had done was never going to be simply forgiven or forgotten, so what else was there for him to do?

“After a decade, they started giving us some small change based on the size of the harvest. It wasn’t much, but it meant we could start saving up, and that was everything. We’re close to the western capital here—I think the proximity increased the income from the harvest. It was such a simple thing, but it got us involved, made us start thinking about how we could improve yields or keep the crops from getting sick or keep the bugs away. Part of the reason we started keeping chickens was so they could eat whatever insects turned up when we plowed the fields.”

“Quack,” quacked the duck, not that it was relevant.

“So the birds the Windreaders used weren’t chickens?” asked Maomao.

“No, they weren’t. Chickens aren’t suited to a nomadic life.”

“But if they weren’t chickens, then...” Basen looked very serious. “They must have been ducks!”

“No, they weren’t ducks! What’s wrong with you?” Lahan’s Brother exploded.

Basen frowned at this instantaneous comeback. “Ducks eat bugs. And they’re bigger than chickens, which means they can eat 
more
 bugs... Right?”

“Ducks like water. This is a 
desert
. No one is going to raise any ducks!”

“I have proof positive that you’re wrong,” Basen said, indicating his duck. “Even waterfowl can grow big and strong here if they put their minds to it.”

“Whoever heard of a duck putting its mind to anything?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, but it was hopeless: Basen was a complete duck fanboy. The animal at his feet seemed to puff out her chest.

“Hate to break it to you, but they weren’t...ducks, did you call them? I’ve never seen one of these before,” Nianzhen said. Lahan’s Brother smirked at Basen, who sulked and patted his duck on the head. “The birds are exactly what we’re missing to do the Windreader ritual. Those birds weren’t about eating bugs—they were used to find them. No one can just guess where there’s going to be insects on all the wide plains, can they? I’d say it was because the Windreaders knew how to do that, that the Yi clan gave them their protection.”

And now here was a serf, a survivor of a decimated tribe that had believed the Windreaders and their rites were nothing but superstition.

“All right, can I get back to work? There’s so much yet to do.” Nianzhen heaved himself to his feet.

“Of course, sir. Whatever it is that you still have to do, perhaps you would let us help?” Maomao asked, before looking to either Basen or Lahan’s Brother for approval.

“You visitors from the western capital have funny hobbies. Your Rikuson, he said the same thing. Sure, I’d appreciate it. I’m the only former serf around here. Everyone else came to this village later; they don’t give a care about anyone’s fields but their own. It’s only me looking after the fields of the guys who are gone, and it gets harder every year...”

Nianzhen had to be almost seventy by now. Old enough that he might die at any time, yet he kept laboring away.

I can’t countenance what he did, but still.

As Nianzhen shuffled away, Maomao felt like she could see shackles around his ankles.

For the next two days or so, Maomao and the others helped Nianzhen with his work. They turned over the earth with farming implements, discovering ants and earthworms and small beetles in the damp soil—and something else: long, thin blobs that, on closer inspection, had tiny eggs inside.

The chickens started with the earthworms, but when those ran out they moved on to these bundles of eggs. Basen’s duck joined them, pecking away at the ground.

Grasshopper eggs?

Maomao would have liked to calculate how many there were likely to be in a one-
tan
 field, but she didn’t have time. Whenever she found an egg bundle that the birds had missed, she would pluck it out of the ground and place it in a jar.

These are probably the larger ones
, she thought.

It was the kind of work that would drive someone with a fear of insects insane. Even Maomao, who had a good deal of experience with grasshopper dissection, didn’t enjoy looking at the little egg bundles.

Lahan’s Brother and Basen both plowed several times as much soil as Maomao could manage. Lahan’s Brother showed his stuff as a true farmer—the way he held and used the hoe was just different—while Basen’s ridiculous strength, for once, served him well.

I’m glad Basen was willing to join us here.
 He could have refused on the grounds that this wasn’t soldier’s work; there wouldn’t have been much she could do then. He seemed to have taken Jinshi’s concern about the grasshoppers to heart, though, and joined in without complaint. It probably seemed easy compared to raising ducks.

Basen’s willingness to be part of this convinced the guards and farmers they’d brought from the western capital to help out too. It looked like they were going to plow the entire field within the day. Even Chue was there, scampering across the plowed earth picking up any stray grasshopper eggs. Two children followed close behind her—the brother and sister she’d given the potato to. They seemed to be under the impression that if they helped out, there might be another potato in it for them.

“Miss Maomao! Miss Maomao! I’ve got lots! Wanna see?”

“Miss Chue! Miss Chue! I don’t want to see them. Although if you have a praying mantis ootheca, I’ll gladly take it.” Praying mantis eggs could be made into a medicine called 
sang piao shao
, or mantis egg case, which was pretty valuable in that it was hard to get in large quantities.

“These eggs are hatching—there’s little guys coming out of them! Sure you don’t want to see, Miss Maomao?”

“Well, it is spring. And yes, I’m sure. They’re disgusting; please don’t show them to me.”

From the insect encyclopedia in the Shi clan fortress, Maomao had learned that grasshoppers lived for about three months and could lay upward of a hundred eggs at a time. The eggs hatched in spring, and the new generation would lay more eggs in summer.

I should’ve asked them to bring the Shi clan book about bugs—and the one about medicinal herbs, while we’re at it.

The more information they had, the better off they would be.

It wasn’t like grasshoppers bred all year round. At the moment, the eggs laid last autumn were starting to hatch. “Fall plowing” was a good idea—it would turn up the eggs that had been hidden in the earth, which would then become food for birds or small animals.

I think I remember Lahan talking about this.
 What had he called it? Multiplying like rats?

Say a single pair of rats had twelve children, for a total of fourteen rats. Assume there were six females among the children—meaning seven total, including their mother. Each of them could have another twelve babies.

This was basically an academic proposition, of course; not all of the rats were going to survive into adulthood. But grasshoppers multiplied much the same way, meaning that it was crucial to bring their numbers down as early in the cycle as possible.

If one cluster of eggs is a hundred, then ten is a thousand, and a hundred would be ten thousand.
 They could reduce the number of grasshoppers they had to deal with in the future by orders of magnitude if they could take care of the eggs now.

Grasshoppers liked to lay their eggs in ground that was somewhat damp. 
I guess with the river right nearby and plenty of grass to eat, this is the perfect place for them.
 Maybe some of the land had deliberately been left uncultivated specifically to attract the grasshoppers.

There were supposedly a number of other villages like this one scattered around I-sei Province—but how many of them were still functioning?

Nianzhen came up to Maomao, carrying a jar of grasshopper eggs. “All we have to do now is burn these.”

“Sounds good to me.”

“Mm. Last year I was late with this, and a lot of the grasshoppers got away from me.”

She did recall the farmers of the village saying that last year had been a bad one for bug damage.

“So the harvest was poor?” she asked.

Nianzhen nodded. “There was only enough for us to eat, and we have no stores. If we’d had to pay taxes on top of that, we probably would’ve starved. Then we wouldn’t have had enough left over to buy daily necessities from the merchants, so we would have had to sell off our livestock.”

“But the governor exempted you from taxes, right? In fact, he even sent you support.”

“That he did. He’s cut from good cloth, that governor,” Nianzhen said—but again he sounded like he was saying it through gritted teeth.

Maomao decided not to beat around the bush. “You don’t quite sound like you mean that, sir. May I ask what bothers you so much about him?”

“I realize a former bandit’s in no position to criticize, but these people will take anything they can get. They beg and wheedle and plead for every last bit—they’re like grasshoppers themselves. If they’re so eager not to starve, maybe they should try growing some crops! But they don’t have to bother, because they have a ‘bad harvest’ and in comes the money. What would 
you
 do, if you could make as much or more lazing about than by breaking your back in the fields?”

“Is that why none of the fields in this village seem well cared-for?”

“You got it. It was the same way with the grasshoppers last year. Everyone just stood by and watched the bugs ravage their fields. The village headman was only wondering how to spin it in his letter to get the most sympathy from the governor. Meanwhile, I was going from plant to plant, plucking those grasshoppers off the leaves one at a time. They thought I was a fool!”

It hardly seemed like the actions of someone who had once been the vilest of bandits. The terror of the earlier plague seemed to have left a permanent mark on Nianzhen.

No... Maybe I’m wrong.

Maybe Nianzhen had always had a diligent streak. Born and raised to brigandage, he’d learned to shoot a bow and had excelled at what he had been told was important: killing.

Logic was not, after all, something one was born with.

“Judging by how the village looks now, they must have brought in quite a lot of cash last year,” Maomao said.

“They sure did. It’s been this way for more than a decade. Always the same. They have a crop failure, the governor saves their necks. A 
good
, 
kind
 governor.”

Good and kind, huh...

She wondered where all this money to support the farmers was coming from. Maybe it was excess from trade? She’d seen what a flourishing place the western capital was—there seemed to be more than enough cash going around to spare a few small coins for a farming village.

“If they’re going to spend all that money out here, it seems like an irrigation canal or two might be nice,” Maomao said.

When people had to do less physical labor hauling water, new kinds of work opened up. More fields could be developed. It would have been a wise investment, in Maomao’s eyes.

“That man Rikuson said the same thing,” said Nianzhen.

“Did he?” When they got back to the capital, she would have to find out how Rikuson had learned about this former serf.

“I suppose I should apologize for making you spend all your time helping me out here,” Nianzhen said. “Was there anything else you needed in this village?”

“Anything else...” Maomao rested her chin on the shaft of her hoe and closed her eyes. “Oh!”

She went over to Lahan’s Brother, who wasn’t just turning over the earth but was starting to build up ridges.

“Are you planning to make a field here?” she asked.

“Ack!”

His face says: Shoot! I always do that!
 Lahan’s Brother could deny it all he liked, but he was a farmer through and through.

“Aren’t you going to tell people about your potatoes? That’s what you brought them for, right?”

“Yes, well, you’d think, wouldn’t you?” Lahan’s Brother grumbled. “But you saw these people—they aren’t 
actually
 interested in field work. You think they’d actually bother growing potatoes if I gave them to them? I doubt they’d use their established fields to grow new crops, but they don’t look like they’re about to bother breaking new ground either.”

“Point taken,” Maomao said.

“That’s why I was so eager to meet the one person around here with a decent field!”

“Oh?”

“Yeah, but there’s no point giving the potatoes to the old guy.”

“I guess not.”

As the last of the former serfs in this village, Nianzhen had to tend to his own field as well as to the plowing for the so-called ritual. Normally, the plowing would have been finished in autumn, and here it was dragging on into spring—a clear sign of just how short of help he was.

“You don’t think we could leave someone here to help?” Maomao asked, looking at the farmers they had brought from the central region.

Lahan’s Brother almost seemed to think about it, but then said, “They only came all the way from the central region because I did. I can’t just leave them to work the soil in a land they hardly know. It would just be too tragic, don’t you think?”

“Yeah, that’s fair.”

Lahan’s Brother’s older-brotherliness could come out at the strangest times. He might have made a really good eldest son, if only he’d been born into a normal family.