Chapter 1: Return to the Western Capital

Maomao wiped her brow as she looked out of the carriage. The sun pounded down, baking the earth. The people who followed behind the vehicle on foot wore conical traveling hats, but it wouldn’t save them from the reflected light, which would still be strong enough to tan the skin.

So, a year later, and I’m back
, Maomao thought. The last time she’d come, it had been a little earlier in the year, and not quite so hot. At least there was no humidity—the sweat she wiped at dried quickly—but it was still blazing.

The quack doctor had promptly succumbed to the heat and was curled up in a corner of the carriage.

“What this place needs is a little greenery! That would make things better,” Chue observed. She held out a leather pouch of water flavored with the rind of some sort of citrus fruit. Even the lukewarm drink was better than nothing on Maomao’s parched throat. “You’ve been here before, right, Miss Maomao?”

“Yes, last year.”

She certainly hadn’t expected to be back again this year. Most commoners never took a trip this long in their entire lives.

“But you weren’t here very long, right? Let Miss Chue show you around this time! You can see the sights! Enjoy yourself!” There was a gleam in her eyes. The less something had to do with work, the more eager she was to do it.

“No, thank you, I have a job to do.” Maomao would have loved to go sightseeing, to finally see the entire city and sample all the medicinal herbs and other plant life for sale at this nexus of trade. But there was one person she had to keep an eye on at all times. Jinshi.

That son of a...!

Even now, the memory made her blood boil, and she suspected it always would.

“Miss Maomao! Miss Maomao! You look tense,” Chue said and began massaging Maomao’s cheeks. It seemed like somehow, someone always ended up doing that.

“O-Oh, do I?”

“I’m sure they’d be perfectly happy for you to go out all day if you told them it was to inspect your surroundings. Just make sure you call me when you do!”

She just wants me to be her excuse!

Chue was easy to talk to, and better than any of the 
other
 potential minders who might be assigned to her, but still...

“Oh me, oh my! We’ve been talking so much that we’ve arrived!”

A town of stone and brick came into view. It was dotted with green trees, and a lake sparkled in the distance. Awnings fluttered here and there to keep off the sun. The carriage rolled right on, toward a great mansion. For a moment, Maomao thought they were going to the same house she’d been to last year, but then she realized it was the one next door to that.

“So this is the administrative office!” Chue said, looking at a stone plaque on the front of the building.

The carriage stopped at the gate. The other physicians were already waiting inside.

“Ah, is that everybody?” said the dark-skinned Dr. You, waving to them.

“Okay, Miss Maomao, Miss Chue has other things to do. So!”

“Right. Thank you very much.”

“Don’t mention it!” Chue pitter-pattered away, into the administrative building.

“Over here!” Dr. You called. He was standing with Tianyu and one of the other physicians. Maomao and the quack went over to him, with Lihaku following at an unobtrusive distance.

“Have you been here before, Dr. You?” Tianyu drawled.

“Yes, plenty of times. That was back before this was a bureaucratic office, though. I’m from the western capital myself, you know. A native son of I-sei Province. I know where the eastern villa is, more or less.”

“Huh!” said Tianyu, who didn’t sound very interested in the answer despite having asked the question.

Before it was an office, huh?
 Maomao thought. As they walked inside, she pondered what it might have been used for before. It did indeed feel more like a rich person’s house than a proper administrative building. 
Maybe it’s a mansion they confiscated from someone who wasn’t paying their taxes?

That was entirely her imagination, but it was enough to pass the time until they arrived at the villa. The medical supplies were already there.

“What should we do next?” the serious-looking physician asked Dr. You.

“Let’s see. The plan is for us to split into three groups, just like we did on the ships. The Moon Prince will be at Lord Gyoku-ou’s annex, Grand Commandant Kan will be here in the administrative office, and our man Lu from the Board of Rites will be in Lord Gyoku-ou’s main house.”

The good doctor seemed to refer to one of those men very differently from the others. Maybe they were close personally, or perhaps in rank?

“Should we split up into the same groups we did on the boats, then?” the other doctor asked.

“Hmm. I think something a little different today,” Dr. You said. He grabbed Tianyu and pushed him toward Maomao and the quack.

“Huh? I’m with them, sir?” Tianyu asked. “I was sure I would be with Dr. Li again.”

Maomao agreed. Li was evidently the remaining physician. The name was also extremely common—so much so that it was no help in telling people apart, and those surnamed Li often found themselves called by their full names. Lihaku was a handy example of that phenomenon.

“We tried to take all possible factors into account when we made that decision. You can be with Dr. Li—
provided
 that you can mind your mouth. I heard about your little gaffes on the ship.” Evidently Tianyu had given lip to some high officials.

“But I might be just as rude anywhere else! Um... Where 
am
 I going?”

“To the annex. I’m going to be in the administrative office here, and Dr. Li will be at the main residence.”

“That would mean I’m in the same building as the Imperial younger brother, wouldn’t it? Wouldn’t that only have the potential to make things worse?”

That implied Maomao would also be in Jinshi’s building. She might have guessed as much.

“Hah! Hoping to get a chance to do an exam on the Moon Prince? Good luck. I doubt you’ll even see him much.” Dr. You smacked Tianyu on the shoulder. Tianyu rubbed it painfully.