“Hmm... Very well,” Jinshi sounded like he had to swallow some objection, but agreed nonetheless. “I was already planning to have someone get a firsthand look at the farms. There are enough issues with the villages vis-à-vis the impending plague. This might be perfect.”

“What kind of issues?” Maomao cocked her head. Jinshi had so many different problems to deal with, she didn’t even know which one he meant.

Jinshi looked to Gaoshun, and the other man unrolled a map of I-sei Province on the table. It bore several circles in ink.

“What are these?” Maomao asked.

“The locations of the farming villages.”

“There aren’t as many as I expected, considering I-sei Province’s size.”

“There’s a fair number of individual plots of farmland, but some sort of problem crops up when they reach a certain size. Outside of the western capital itself, the population here has never been very large, and with all the trade that goes on, many people simply import their food.”

In this land, withered soil was the norm and water sources were limited. Maomao might only be able to go out to the nearest village.

Is that the same place Rikuson went?

He’d looked very busy—she doubted he’d been visiting the farms just to pass the time. He must’ve gone to the closest place.

“And these,” Jinshi said, taking a brush Gaoshun offered him and drawing a larger circle on the map, “are grazing lands.”

“Grazing lands, sir?” In other words, a place where livestock could feed. Probably not cows here in the western capital—goats and sheep, more likely.

“Some of them are used by the farmers, but some of them are areas that nomadic tribes pass through. Groups that don’t have permanent settlements.”

“I see.”

Jinshi didn’t seem to be explaining for Maomao’s sake so much as he was trying to organize his own thoughts. “Do you remember the orders I issued to try to combat the grasshoppers?” he asked.

“I do. You forbade the killing of pest birds, promoted the eating of insects, and said the farming villages should be taught how to make insecticide.” Maomao had been involved in the insecticide project herself. She’d developed several formulas that used primarily local ingredients.

“Right. Those orders went out all over Li, including I-sei Province, of course. However...” He trailed off.

Maomao thought she could see the miscalculation Jinshi had been confronted with. “Even if farmers do use insecticide, they only use it on their fields,” she said.

“Exactly.”

And I-sei Province had a few small fields and a lot of very big plains. The farmers wouldn’t kill the bugs in the grassy areas. Not to mention that there was every chance the nomads had never received the orders at all.

Even if they had...
 They wouldn’t want to put farm chemicals all over something their livestock were going to eat, and they wouldn’t go around killing grasshoppers one by one either.

Jinshi and Maomao were both silent.

The grasshoppers that had avoided extermination would produce a new generation many times larger than their own.

Maomao, though, was puzzled. “Pardon me, sir, but wasn’t there already a small-scale insect plague in western Li last year? Did that include the western capital?”

“No report of any plague came from I-sei Province,” Jinshi said, sounding equally perplexed. “Admittedly, this area survives largely by trade and doesn’t do much planting of its own, so any agricultural damage would be modest...”

“But there should have been 
some
.”

She thought back to the previous autumn. Jinshi had sent her a crate of grasshoppers—it almost qualified as harassment—and she had measured hundreds of them. At the time, Lahan had speculated that they might have come from Hokuaren on the seasonal winds. And which area was closest to Hokuaren? I-sei Province.

Could the grasshoppers have missed them by pure luck? Or...are these people hiding something?

Maomao searched Jinshi’s face. He didn’t look overly concerned, but seemed calm, like he was simply confirming something he already knew. Information he already had. She tried to look at the others in the room for a hint, but Suiren, Taomei, and Gaoshun betrayed nothing.

Is I-sei Province trying to hide a bad harvest?
 she wondered. Then she groaned to herself. 
Maybe it’s Empress Gyokuyou’s brother.

Gyoku-ou, the man who was now in charge in the western capital on behalf of their father. He seemed to have some sort of history with Empress Gyokuyou, but Maomao had largely ignored it as something that didn’t involve a simple apothecary.

Did all this have something to do with why Rikuson had been out in the village, getting himself filthy?

Maomao started to feel impatient, restless. Thinking about the question only left her tying herself in knots, but she hated the feeling of leaving it unanswered. Best to move quickly, then.

“I know it’s somewhat sudden, but perhaps you’d allow me to leave for the farming villages tomorrow, sir?”

“Much as I’d like you to get underway as soon as possible, that might be a bit too soon,” Jinshi said. “Hmm...”

Gaoshun intervened at that moment. “Moon Prince,” he said.

“What is it, Gaoshun?”

“If Xiaomao is to leave, best she wait a few days first.”

“Why? So everything can be gotten ready?”

“No, sir. Because Basen should arrive a few days from now.”

Maomao felt like she hadn’t heard that name in a long time. Basen, she remembered, was traveling overland to reach the western capital.

“I think he would make an ideal bodyguard for Xiaomao,” Gaoshun said.

“All right. We’ll use that time to prepare,” replied Jinshi, and with that, it was settled. Maomao let out a sigh of relief and was about to head back to the medical office where the quack and Tianyu waited, but Jinshi spoke again. “Just a moment.”

“Yes, sir?”

“My 
stomach
 is bothering me. Perhaps you could examine it?” He grinned at her.

I might have known.

“I’ll be waiting in the next room,” he said. Then he left and, perhaps informed ahead of time, Suiren and the others stayed behind.

“Very well,” Maomao said after a moment. She took out fresh bandages. Privately, though, she wished Basen would hurry up and get here.