I’m not all that interested in bugs, but I don’t think I can get out of this one.

For a second, Maomao found herself thinking of another young woman, one who had liked insects far more than she did.

“Of course, I’m trusting myself to your services today, Master Physician. As ever.” Jinshi smiled as he received them. They were in the most sumptuous guest room in the annex. There was a rich, thick, delicately embroidered sheep’s wool rug, and the curtains appeared to be made of silk; they shimmered and shone each time the wind ruffled them. Maomao could never help wondering about the market value of Jinshi’s accommodations.

That looks good, though
, she thought, spying a plate of fruit on the table. There were luscious grapes, so recently chilled that they were still sweating. They promised sweet juice filling the mouth as they burst between the teeth.

I wonder if he needs them checked for poison.

Sadly, Maomao wasn’t there at that moment to taste Jinshi’s food. That job fell to Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting Taomei. The boisterous Chue was missing today, and Maomao didn’t see Baryou either, although she had her suspicions about what was on the other side of the gently rustling curtains. Suiren and Gaoshun stood by the wall.

The quack doctor remained cowed in Jinshi’s presence. “Eep! L-Let’s get started, then...” As usual, he could barely get the words out, and as usual, his exam was 
pro forma
 at best.

Tianyu was also absent from this scene. He’d proved too likely to offend someone important to be invited on a visit like this. Tianyu was perceptive enough that he might have looked askance at Maomao and the quack going to do this exam, but if he had any doubts, he had kept them to himself for the moment. Was that because he knew how to take a hint, or had someone on Jinshi’s side of things reached out to help him understand? Maomao preferred not to think about it.

I also don’t care either way.
 She had things to do. For now, she would put aside the question of why Jinshi had been consigned to the villa. The freak strategist wasn’t in the same building; that was what really mattered.

“All right, young lady, I’ll be heading back,” the quack said.

“Yes, sir,” Maomao replied.

The quack left without so much as a scruple. His bodyguard, Lihaku, went with him.

Jinshi turned down the sparkle just a bit. “Tea, if you would,” he said.

“Of course, sir,” replied Taomei, and went to prepare it.

“Here you go.” Suiren thoughtfully brought a chair, so Maomao sat down. She wasn’t rude enough to grab any grapes just then, but she tried to send Suiren a telepathic message that she’d like some as a souvenir.

“How are you settling into your new workplace?” Jinshi asked.

“Easily enough, sir. The personnel haven’t changed, so it’s just getting used to the new environment.” That was the honest answer. What she really wanted now was to find out what kinds of medicine were available in the western capital. When they’d taken stock of what had been used during the ship voyage, it turned out to be chiefly nausea medication and antipyretics. The southern route they’d taken had been as hot as high summer, and combined with the poor air circulation on the ship, they’d had lots of cases of dizziness. Heatstroke was best cured by water, not medicine, but Maomao suspected that while she was away, the quack had diagnosed many of the cases as colds and handed out antipyretics. That would explain it.

Funny enough, it had worked out: the medicine the quack had prescribed tasted so bad that patients had to take it with plenty of water anyway, so in the end it had cured their heatstroke.

He’s sure got luck on his side
, she marveled. Even better, she’d heard that they would be given new supplies bought in the western capital to make up the shortfall in their inventory. 
Wish I could have gone along on the shopping trip, though.
 She was so curious about exactly what drugs were sold here.

Maomao, however, had other things to attend to. She glanced around, then stole a look at Jinshi’s side. She wasn’t sure how to bring that up, so she settled on changing the subject entirely.

“I gather we have a potato farmer among us, thanks to Lahan’s connections.”

This was Lahan they were talking about; if they succeeded in cultivating potatoes in I-sei Province, she was sure he intended to go straight into exporting them to Shaoh or something. It was right next door to I-sei, which would minimize shipping costs.

Jinshi gave her a look. “A potato farmer? He’s your cousin, is what I heard.”

“No relation,” she said firmly, so that there would be no mistake.

“But I heard he was Lahan’s older brother.”

“Yes, but Lahan and I are complete strangers.”

Jinshi gave her a harder look, but he went along with it.

“Anyway, yes, we do have a potato farmer here. When I heard he was from the La clan, I expected someone... I don’t know. More distinctive.”

“Have you met him, sir?”

“I’ve only seen him in passing. I saw him when Lahan was helping him onto the ship.”

In other words, he had spotted them smack in the middle of the dupe.

“He’s a very normal person, sir.”

“Yes. Very normal.” It seemed Jinshi shared Maomao’s assessment—but anyway, if he already knew about him, that made everything easier.

“I’d like to accompany him to the farming villages. Do you think I could be given permission?”

“The farming villages? It would help me if you could go, but then how would you handle your medical duties?” Jinshi patted his flank pointedly.

You did that to yourself
, Maomao thought. He already knew how to change the dressings, anyway, so she didn’t have to be examining it all the time.

“A young man named Tianyu has been assigned to our group. I think he could manage things, sir,” she said, ignoring Jinshi’s injury for the moment. She might object to Tianyu as a person, but his actual work seemed trustworthy.

“Hmm... Very well,” Jinshi sounded like he had to swallow some objection, but agreed nonetheless. “I was already planning to have someone get a firsthand look at the farms. There are enough issues with the villages vis-à-vis the impending plague. This might be perfect.”

“What kind of issues?” Maomao cocked her head. Jinshi had so many different problems to deal with, she didn’t even know which one he meant.

Jinshi looked to Gaoshun, and the other man unrolled a map of I-sei Province on the table. It bore several circles in ink.

“What are these?” Maomao asked.

“The locations of the farming villages.”

“There aren’t as many as I expected, considering I-sei Province’s size.”

“There’s a fair number of individual plots of farmland, but some sort of problem crops up when they reach a certain size. Outside of the western capital itself, the population here has never been very large, and with all the trade that goes on, many people simply import their food.”

In this land, withered soil was the norm and water sources were limited. Maomao might only be able to go out to the nearest village.

Is that the same place Rikuson went?

He’d looked very busy—she doubted he’d been visiting the farms just to pass the time. He must’ve gone to the closest place.

“And these,” Jinshi said, taking a brush Gaoshun offered him and drawing a larger circle on the map, “are grazing lands.”

“Grazing lands, sir?” In other words, a place where livestock could feed. Probably not cows here in the western capital—goats and sheep, more likely.

“Some of them are used by the farmers, but some of them are areas that nomadic tribes pass through. Groups that don’t have permanent settlements.”

“I see.”

Jinshi didn’t seem to be explaining for Maomao’s sake so much as he was trying to organize his own thoughts. “Do you remember the orders I issued to try to combat the grasshoppers?” he asked.

“I do. You forbade the killing of pest birds, promoted the eating of insects, and said the farming villages should be taught how to make insecticide.” Maomao had been involved in the insecticide project herself. She’d developed several formulas that used primarily local ingredients.

“Right. Those orders went out all over Li, including I-sei Province, of course. However...” He trailed off.

Maomao thought she could see the miscalculation Jinshi had been confronted with. “Even if farmers do use insecticide, they only use it on their fields,” she said.

“Exactly.”

And I-sei Province had a few small fields and a lot of very big plains. The farmers wouldn’t kill the bugs in the grassy areas. Not to mention that there was every chance the nomads had never received the orders at all.

Even if they had...
 They wouldn’t want to put farm chemicals all over something their livestock were going to eat, and they wouldn’t go around killing grasshoppers one by one either.

Jinshi and Maomao were both silent.

The grasshoppers that had avoided extermination would produce a new generation many times larger than their own.

Maomao, though, was puzzled. “Pardon me, sir, but wasn’t there already a small-scale insect plague in western Li last year? Did that include the western capital?”

“No report of any plague came from I-sei Province,” Jinshi said, sounding equally perplexed. “Admittedly, this area survives largely by trade and doesn’t do much planting of its own, so any agricultural damage would be modest...”

“But there should have been 
some
.”

She thought back to the previous autumn. Jinshi had sent her a crate of grasshoppers—it almost qualified as harassment—and she had measured hundreds of them. At the time, Lahan had speculated that they might have come from Hokuaren on the seasonal winds. And which area was closest to Hokuaren? I-sei Province.

Could the grasshoppers have missed them by pure luck? Or...are these people hiding something?

Maomao searched Jinshi’s face. He didn’t look overly concerned, but seemed calm, like he was simply confirming something he already knew. Information he already had. She tried to look at the others in the room for a hint, but Suiren, Taomei, and Gaoshun betrayed nothing.

Is I-sei Province trying to hide a bad harvest?
 she wondered. Then she groaned to herself. 
Maybe it’s Empress Gyokuyou’s brother.

Gyoku-ou, the man who was now in charge in the western capital on behalf of their father. He seemed to have some sort of history with Empress Gyokuyou, but Maomao had largely ignored it as something that didn’t involve a simple apothecary.

Did all this have something to do with why Rikuson had been out in the village, getting himself filthy?

Maomao started to feel impatient, restless. Thinking about the question only left her tying herself in knots, but she hated the feeling of leaving it unanswered. Best to move quickly, then.

“I know it’s somewhat sudden, but perhaps you’d allow me to leave for the farming villages tomorrow, sir?”

“Much as I’d like you to get underway as soon as possible, that might be a bit too soon,” Jinshi said. “Hmm...”

Gaoshun intervened at that moment. “Moon Prince,” he said.

“What is it, Gaoshun?”

“If Xiaomao is to leave, best she wait a few days first.”

“Why? So everything can be gotten ready?”

“No, sir. Because Basen should arrive a few days from now.”

Maomao felt like she hadn’t heard that name in a long time. Basen, she remembered, was traveling overland to reach the western capital.

“I think he would make an ideal bodyguard for Xiaomao,” Gaoshun said.

“All right. We’ll use that time to prepare,” replied Jinshi, and with that, it was settled. Maomao let out a sigh of relief and was about to head back to the medical office where the quack and Tianyu waited, but Jinshi spoke again. “Just a moment.”

“Yes, sir?”

“My 
stomach
 is bothering me. Perhaps you could examine it?” He grinned at her.

I might have known.

“I’ll be waiting in the next room,” he said. Then he left and, perhaps informed ahead of time, Suiren and the others stayed behind.

“Very well,” Maomao said after a moment. She took out fresh bandages. Privately, though, she wished Basen would hurry up and get here.