“I think you’re like me. You couldn’t accept a partner who was chosen for you, the way Mother, Father, and Baryou could. What I’m saying is that 
if
 there’s someone you’re in love with, now would be the time to say so, before Uncle or someone decides for you.”

“In 
l-l-love
 with?!”

“I knew it! I’ll take that as a yes.” She gave him a very unpleasant smirk.

“I’m s-sorry, S-Sister, but I don’t know what you mean...”

“No, of course you don’t. You don’t have to say it; it’s written all over your face.”

Basen unconsciously put his hands to his cheeks and discovered they were warm.

Maamei stretched out on the bed. “I didn’t come here today just to tease you.”

Basen stayed silent. Maamei smirked even harder.

“As I said, neither Mother, nor Father, nor Baryou chose their own partners. There’s nothing wrong with that, but they happen to be the kind who can cope with whomever they end up with. Not me. I could never abide someone my parents or family picked for me. So I never gave them the chance—I decided for myself!”

Basen thought of Maamei’s husband: he was twelve years older than her. Basen remembered her saying she would marry him when she was only eight years old. Everyone had had a good chuckle, but eight years later, her pronouncement had come true.

Every time he met his brother-in-law, Basen felt like a failure.

Maamei pointed squarely at him. “You and I are the same. We could never consent to political marriages.”

“I-I’d like to think—”

“If you agreed to such a match, it would always remain a sham. Mother and Father gradually learned to love each other, and Baryou and Chue have found their places in their relationship, but you wouldn’t be able to do either of those things. Even if you could accept the situation, I tell you, your wife would never be happy.”

“I... I think...”

He found he couldn’t contradict her outright. He was sure that whomever his family might choose as his wife, she wouldn’t be a bad person. Likewise, he was confident that he would come to care for her.

In the back of his mind, though, there floated an image of a girl like a flower on the roadside.

“There. You just thought of someone, didn’t you?”

“I—I did not!” he exclaimed, flushing bright red. Maamei’s smile got wider.

“Not that it matters to me, but let me give you some 
sisterly
 advice. If there’s someone you have feelings for, you need to tell her. If she rejects you, so be it—at least you’ll know where you stand. I know you, and without that, you’d spend your entire life pining for her.”

Basen was silent: this, too, he could not deny.

“You might have nothing but brute strength to recommend you, you might be a damned fool who always goes charging in—but you’re still my little brother. Make your choice, and make it like you mean it.”

“You never said anything like that to Baryou...”

“Baryou has committed to his choices in his own way, you know.”

Basen didn’t really understand what that meant.

Maamei, looking like she felt lighter now that she had said what she came to say, got up from the bed. “I’ll be going, then.”

Basen’s mouth moved, but no words came out as his sister went to leave the room.

Then she turned. “Ah. One other thing I’d like to be sure of.”

“Yes? What?”

“She’s not married, is she?”

Basen froze in place but looked away. “No! Well... Not anymore!”

“
What?
” Maamei replied, with a theatricality that drove Basen up the wall.

The ducks surrounded Basen, quacking noisily. Jofu, still with the black spot on her beak, was there with him. Jofu was noticeably bigger than the other birds—she alone had remained with him as the other ducks had gone one by one to the farming villages.

Basen was wearing a brand-new outfit. Perhaps it would have been just as well to choose something well-worn, since it was only going to get dirty anyway, but new clothes were a chance to reset and refresh himself.

Jofu led Basen along, shaking her tail. She knew where he was going.

Steam rose from the hatchery, warmed as ever by the hot springs and the fire in the oven. By Basen’s request, they were hatching several times as many ducks as before.

Basen braced himself as someone emerged from the shed. He thought it might have been Lishu, but after a second he realized his mistake. It was one of the other wayfarers responsible for the hatchery, a middle-aged woman he’d met several times before.

“Master Basen! Everything is ready,” she said. She had cages, each quacking with a duck. “I was told this would be your last visit. I do hope you’ll take good care of these sweeties.” She bowed deeply to him. Some of the wayfarers were just researchers, but others treated the ducks like their own children. Basen had faith that a nun who felt love even for waterfowl would never mistreat Lishu.

With all respect and apologies to the nun, however, there was just one thing on Basen’s mind: disappointment. He’d told Lishu his next visit would be his last, but he hadn’t said when he would be coming. Anyway, she wasn’t under any obligation to match his schedule.

He clenched his fists. Despondent at his own ineptitude, he took the cages and put them on the wagon. The driver of the wagon pitched in, and the three of them loaded the cages. Jofu had wandered off, evidently tired of the scene.

“I must apologize to you for being on duty today,” the nun said.

“I-I’m sure I don’t know what you mean, ma’am!” Basen said.

“Hee hee! I’m sure you would much rather be passing the time with a sweet young thing like Lishu than a ripe old auntie like me. Although it can be tricky to hold a conversation with that girl—she’s not the world’s best talker.”

“H-Heavens!”

“You know, you sound a lot like her.” The nun laughed out loud, but there was a refinement to it; it spoke to the upbringing she must have had before she became a wayfarer. “Lishu is, well, timid. If I were a bit younger, it’s the sort of thing that might have annoyed me.”

“What?”

“Now all I feel is sympathy—she reminds me of myself when I was her age!” The nun patted the ducks in the cages. “No one gives her any trouble, of course. Other than a few strange ones who like this kind of lifestyle, most of us who come to Red Plum Village have our stories. I left the profane world more than twenty years ago now, so I have no idea who or what Lishu might be. And no interest in finding out. I just wish she would stop tripping and breaking the eggs!” The nun put a cage on the wagon. “There, that’s the last one. Where are these ducks going to end up, I wonder?”

“We’re going west,” Basen said. He would head overland toward the western capital, distributing the ducks as he went.

“Well, have a safe trip,” the nun said to the birds. “Eat lots of bugs, lay plenty of good eggs, and live as long as you can.”

The ducks quacked at the nun almost as if in response. She knew that if they couldn’t make themselves useful, they would be turned into dinner. Basen couldn’t ask the farmers to raise pets.

Basen found himself wondering who this woman was and why she had come to Red Plum Village, but he didn’t ask. He could only assume she, too, had a story of her own.

“Quack!” Jofu quacked, pecking at Basen’s toes.

“What is it? Where have you been?” Basen asked. In response, the duck grabbed a beakful of his robe and pulled.

“Looks like she wants to take you somewhere. Why not go see where? I’ll handle the rest here.”

“Are you sure?” Basen glanced at the driver, who nodded.

Jofu loped ahead of Basen, flapping her wings and looking back occasionally to make sure he was still following. Ducks were evidently smarter than he had given them credit for.

Jofu led him to a small lake, a place edged with green among the otherwise desolate scenery. A young woman in white sat by the lakeside.