And today? Would she be there today?

“M-Master Basen?”

His heart leaped. There was Lishu, in her plain clothes, holding a basket. Jofu jumped down off his shoulder and waddled toward the shed.

Basen pressed a hand to his chest and tried to order his pounding heart to be quiet. “Lady Lishu. I’d like to make my report to you, if I may.” He took out a map and circled the villages he had visited that day. With this, he had canvassed nearly all the frontier farm villages.

Red Plum Village wasn’t the only place raising ducks; there were others as well. The work would have to be able to go on after Basen left.

“It looks like you’ve taken them everywhere they could be needed. What will you do next?” Lishu asked, giving Basen a glance.

“Milady. I plan to take the next group with me and head west. I expect this will be my last visit here.”

Lishu blinked. “What?”

“My official duty is to serve as the Moon Prince’s bodyguard. He’s going to the western capital, so I must go with him.”

“He’s going again?”

The Moon Prince’s journey west had been made public at this point, but the news seemed not to have reached Lishu in her seclusion here. She knew of his first trip to the western capital, though, which had happened about this time last year, when she had still been a consort.

“I remember... That was where I first met you,” Basen said, although it pained him to imagine how he must have seemed to her at the time.

“Met me, and saved me—for the first time, but not the last.”

There had been a banquet at the western capital. A lion brought in for entertainment had attacked Lishu. Basen remembered her cowering under a table. Rumors called her a vile, shameless woman of no chastity, but all he’d seen was a frightened, lonely girl the world had never treated well.

Basen worried how she would get by in the future. Her mother was dead, while her father had only ever seen her as a political pawn—and he had been stripped of his station at the same time Lishu had come to this village.

Would she be all right? That worry had plagued Basen ever since Lishu left the court. Meeting her here had only added to his fears.

“...with me?” He was so lost in thought that he almost didn’t hear the words coming out of his own mouth.

“Wha?”

“Would you consider leaving Red Plum Village with me?” he repeated. Even he didn’t know what he thought he was saying. His face was beet red, and he couldn’t bring himself to look at Lishu.

Lishu, meanwhile, looked studiously at the ground. And was also blushing.

It must be his fault for having said something so outrageous. Might it be possible that time would turn back for him, just a few minutes?

Basen felt his breath grow ragged. “N-Never mind! It was nothing!”

“Nothing?” Lishu gave him a probing look, and the flush in her cheeks began to subside.

“A-Anyway, I have more reports to make! If you’ll excuse me!”

With that, Basen left. He never did look at Lishu’s face.

The moment Basen got home, he shut himself in his room and hung his head. “What am I doing?” he groaned, throwing himself across his desk and alternating between holding his head in his hands and tearing at his hair.

The door opened with a clatter. “What 
are
 you doing?”

“Sister?!”

It was Basen’s older sister, Maamei. She was already married, but still living in the main Ma household. Her husband, Basen’s brother-in-law, was of Ma blood himself, and, with Basen’s father, was also responsible for His Majesty’s safety. If it was decided that Basen was not suitable for the family headship, the position would most likely pass to his brother-in-law. Basen, in fact, was perfectly happy to be able to focus his full attention on guarding the Moon Prince, but he couldn’t let that show.

At present, Basen’s grandfather was the nominal head of the family, but in practice most of the work of running the clan was handled by Basen’s mother, Taomei. It was all rather complicated, but in essence the successor from the main household had been disinherited, and Gaoshun had been adopted into the main family from the branch house. Taomei had once been engaged to marry the disowned successor and was already well entrenched in the clan’s day-to-day business, so she simply went on and married Basen’s father. Hence why she was six years older than Gaoshun.

Taomei had then taught Maamei the basics of the clan’s dealings, and Basen’s older sister would presumably take Taomei’s place someday. The Ma clan were the bodyguards of the Imperial family, meaning they could die at any time—so the clan took a pragmatic approach to succession. If Basen died, someone else would take his place.

As the Moon Prince’s guard, Basen rarely returned home as such. The unorthodox assignment he’d been given recently, however, meant he saw much more of Maamei, which could be a little awkward.

“What brings you here?” he asked.

“Now, is that any way to speak to a 
kind
 older sister who just wants to see how her little brother is doing?”

Basen and Maamei seemed to have very different ideas of what it meant to be kind.

“On that subject, is it just me, or do you sort of...stink?” Maamei very deliberately pinched her nose. This was nothing new to Basen; she had always complained when he smelled sweaty, but these days he suspected it was something else.

“I think that would be the ducks,” he said. Spend enough time with fowl and it was hard not to start smelling like them.

“Ducks? Ahh, yes, one of those anti-locust measures, yes? Do you think it will really help?”

“Sister, we’re groping in the dark here. I’ll thank you not to belittle our efforts.”

“Goodness, pardon me,” she said, although she didn’t seem to feel very guilty. She started looking around Basen’s room.

“Sister, if you don’t need anything, then would you kindly get out?”

“Well! When did you get a tongue like that?” Maamei sat on the bed, evidently disinclined to listen to him. The bed was one of the few pieces of furniture in his chamber; he kept furnishings to a minimum because he trained here as well. “You could stand to have a little more...
stuff
 in here,” Maamei remarked.

“No. It would only get in the way.”

“Hmm. Yes... This is a bachelor’s room if I ever saw one.” His sister’s words were always sharp as any sword.

“What’s a man’s love life got to do with his room?” Basen said with a scowl.

“Everything. Besides, you’re certainly the right age to be thinking about a wife. Don’t you have any good prospects?”

“S-Sister! You can’t just drop that subject on me!” He sprang up from his chair so fast it fell over.

“I might point out that, at least for the time being, you’re expected to become the next head of the clan. Our uncle raised the possibility that you should take a wife at least for form’s sake. There’s no telling when you might die, so it would be nice if you would leave a few children behind.”

“Ch-Ch-Children! But th-that would mean—”

“Ah, yes. Don’t worry, no one is expecting much from you. You know that’s why we had to push Baryou and Chue to pick up the slack. I’d like to see at least three more potential successors, but...maybe that’s asking too much. It’s really not a good look for you, though, sitting back and letting your relatives do all the work. You need a wife, even if only for show. Otherwise no one will take you seriously—that’s Uncle’s assessment.”

“I hear what you’re saying...” The subject made Basen’s head hurt. “You want me to hurry up and get married, don’t you? Just like the others.”

“Not at all!”

“What?” Basen looked at her, at a loss as to what else she could possibly mean.