No, that would be the man’s missing left eye. The cavity yawned in his face, the eyeball simply absent. His right hand, wrapped around the hoe, was missing its pointer finger, and his exposed skin was covered with scars from swords and arrows. Maomao saw why the villager had seemed so intimidated, and why Basen had reacted instinctively. This man had the air not of a farmer, but of a soldier.

“Have you been in the military, sir?” Basen asked, careful to sound polite.

“Nothing as fancy as that. I was just a locust making trouble in the plains.”

Locust...

A striking choice of words. And there was something else that nagged at Maomao.

“Have you been working in the fields?” she asked before she could stop herself. There was the hoe in his hands and the mud on his shirt—she recognized the stains.

“What else d’you think I’d be doing?” the man asked, although he didn’t sound particularly bothered.

Maomao’s question had, indeed, seemed obvious—but there was something that had dawned on her as she looked at the village fields. “I just didn’t think one normally got quite so dirty doing fieldwork.”

You wouldn’t get this filthy even tending the wheat, not at this time of year. The dust of the fields was dry; so long as one didn’t go out of one’s way to use damp earth, it shouldn’t have stuck like this.

“Tell me, did a man named Rikuson come this way?”

“Hrm... You friends of his?” The farmer blinked at them with his one eye, then opened the door to his shed. “Come on inside. I can offer you goat’s milk, at least.”

He leaned his hoe against the wall and ushered them in.

The old man was indeed Nianzhen, and his house was as plain inside as it was outside.

It’s a lot like my house, actually
, Maomao thought, picturing her shack in the pleasure quarter. Nianzhen had a hearth, a cot, and a very modest table; that was about it aside from farm implements. His house seemed to be dedicated to farming much the way Maomao’s was to medicine.

Judging by this room, he looks like a pretty simple man.

Those scars all over his body, though—those didn’t seem like the marks of a man who’d made his living as an honest farmer.

There were three chairs inside. Nianzhen let the guests sit, while he stayed standing and poured goat’s milk into chipped teacups. The duck pecked at the dirt floor. Some grain must have spilled there.

“You’re right—a man named Rikuson did come through here. Would’ve been about ten days ago.” Just a day before Maomao and the others met him in the western capital.

“Do you know what he was here for?” Maomao asked. She’d originally planned to let Basen or Lahan’s Brother do the talking, but since she had brought up Rikuson, she would handle this conversation.

“What he was here for? All he did was grab a hoe and help me plow.”

“Plow? You mean, to get ready for the spring planting?”

Wheat could be grown in two seasons. Seeds planted in winter could be harvested in spring or early summer, while seeds planted in spring could be harvested in autumn.

“No, no. I do need to do the spring planting, but that wasn’t what this was about.”

Nianzhen put the goat’s milk on the table and slid the cups toward Maomao and the others. Basen looked like he wasn’t too sure about this unfamiliar drink, but Maomao was grateful for the opportunity to wet her throat. It was normal goat’s milk—lukewarm, but without anything weird in it.

“Might sound a little overblown, but I had him help me with the ritual.”

“Ritual?” Maomao asked. Basen and Lahan’s Brother traded a look, as confused as she was. “You mean some sort of ceremony to pray for a good harvest?”

“More like to prevent a bad one.”

“I’m sorry... This is all a little difficult for me to follow. Do you think you could explain more thoroughly?”

In response, Nianzhen sat on the bed, his tongue sticking out of his mouth. His less than refined manners were showing. “You lot willing to listen to an old man prattle for a bit? The villagers sure aren’t.”

“Listen, 
sir
, we don’t have much time to spare,” Basen said, growing annoyed.

“Oh, well, pardon me.” Nianzhen lay down and rolled over on the cot.

Maomao got to her feet, holding up a hand to stop Basen. “Sir, I’m sorry. Please tell us what you have to say.” She bowed her head. Apologies were free, after all. If he was going to get all bent out of shape about this, she might as well say sorry.

“Hrrm, I don’t know,” Nianzhen said. From someone else, it might have sounded playful. From him, it came off as sadistic. “I don’t think I feel like it anymore.”

“You watch your attitude!” Basen was about to surge forward, but Maomao stopped him again. Lahan’s Brother, unused to conflict, had become a bystander.

I know he’s hotheaded, but I wish he would stop picking fights.
 She knew Basen’s strength, and highly doubted an old man would stand a chance against him. 
But who knows? Sometimes these stubborn old bastards turn out to be tougher than you’d think.
 Maybe Basen could best the old man physically, but what if he simply refused to admit defeat and clammed up?

That would be bad for us.

She had a feeling that Nianzhen was just being stubborn. He’d let them into his house when they’d mentioned Rikuson—she suspected there was actually something he wanted to get off his chest.

“What can we do to get you to talk to us?” Maomao said, as humble as she could be.

“Hrm. Well, how about a little guessing game?”

“Sir? What exactly are we supposed to guess?”

“Simple. What I used to be.”

Yeah, simple. If only I knew what he meant.

Basen and Lahan’s Brother were still looking at each other. The duck did what Basen couldn’t and pecked at the old man’s feet.

“All right, I’ll take a shot,” Basen said, but Nianzhen waved his hand with too few fingers.

“I’m not asking you, kid. I’m talking to the girl there.”

“K-
Kid?
” Basen forced himself to keep it together. To an old, heavily scarred man like this, he really was nothing but a young whippersnapper.

So only Maomao had the right to answer. The question became, what should she say?

Nianzhen... It’s a good, strong name.
 It meant “to intuit the truth.” 
I hope he’s as honest as his name suggests, and that everything he’s told us is true
, she thought, reviewing in her mind what he had said. Nianzhen had called himself a “locust,” not a favorable bug for a farmer.

So he savages crops?

Nianzhen lacked his pointer finger as well as his left eye.

You don’t usually get hurt that bad as a farmer. But he says he’s never been in the army.

He must at least have been in some kind of battle. Several, judging by the extent of his injuries.

Without his finger, he wouldn’t be able to use a weapon. Especially a bow...

Maomao found herself thinking about the bandits who had attacked them the day before. They and their broken arms were probably in the hands of the authorities by now.

Only a couple outcomes for robbers like them. Hanging, for one. The best they can hope for is mutilation...

Then she remembered Nianzhen saying that Rikuson had helped him with a ceremony of some kind.

“Nianzhen,” she said.

“Yeah?” His attitude defied her to guess. Lahan’s Brother was looking at Maomao with what seemed to be indignation, not that it mattered to her. Maybe he didn’t like that she already knew this random old guy’s name even though they’d met just a few minutes earlier.

Not the problem right now.
 Maomao took in a breath and let the words out in a rush: “Were you a human sacrifice, sir?”

Everyone froze.

“What kind of answer is that?!” Basen demanded.

“You don’t know the expression? It’s when someone is sacrificed while still alive.”

“Of course I know that! What I 
don’t
 know is why you think it has anything to do with this old man. He’s obviously still alive!”

Whereas proper sacrifices tended to end up dead.

Maomao, however, stood by her answer. “He didn’t ask 
why
. Only 
what
.”

She looked at Nianzhen, who showed none of Basen’s disbelief or annoyance. Instead, he looked somehow satisfied. “Yes,” he said, “I see. A sacrifice. Maybe that’s what I was.”

Nianzhen let out a long breath and narrowed his single remaining eye.

“Would the three of you be so kind as to listen to the ramblings of a foolish old man?” His tone was light, but there was deep emotion in his eye.

“If you would be so kind as to let us,” Maomao replied. This time Basen and Lahan’s Brother, mindful not to upset Nianzhen again, bowed their heads respectfully.