Her question was innocent, but Chue replied, “What are we supposed to do with them? We can’t take them with us. We’ll leave them here. When we get to the village, we can ask someone to come get them.” She didn’t look like she cared very much.

“I don’t like this, though,” Basen said, folding his arms and furrowing his brow.

“I know what you mean,” Maomao said, for once finding herself feeling the same way he did. What if the men were eaten by a wolf or something while the travelers were on their way to the village? It was hardly outside the realm of possibility.

I don’t think I’d sleep well knowing I’d been a part of that, even if they are crooks.

Basen walked over to the bandits and took one of them by the arm. Then there came another unpleasant 
crack
.

Oof...

Apparently what Basen hadn’t liked was the possibility that the bandits might escape. A couple of them wet themselves as he mercilessly snapped each of their arms. He’d presumably chosen their arms and not their legs so that they could walk when they were being taken to prison.

Never realized I was the nice one
, Maomao thought. She looked at the bandits and mentally urged them to give up their life of crime.

Their journey was quiet after that.

I thought there might be more bugs. Oh well.

There were a few; they were traveling across the plains, after all. It was hardly a swarm, though; she just spotted a grasshopper popping through the grass now and then.

Maybe we didn’t have to worry about a plague after all?
 If there weren’t tons of grasshoppers in the western capital, well, nothing could be better.

About the time they reached the next resting point, they caught up with Lahan’s Brother and his potatoes. For reasons Maomao couldn’t guess, there was a duck atop the horse pulling the wagon, quacking out orders.

“Jofu! You’re here too?”

“Quack!”

The moment the duck saw Basen, she flapped down off the horse’s head. Her eyes seemed to sparkle, and Maomao would have sworn she saw a blizzard of flower petals behind her.

“I tried to leave her at the mansion, but she insisted on coming with,” Lahan’s Brother said. Maomao was the one who had originally foisted the duck on him, so she couldn’t really complain.

“I have to admit, I’ve grown quite fond of her,” Lahan’s Brother said, clearly smitten. “She’s very intelligent—and very helpful. She gladly eats bugs.”

“Sounds like you had a nice, quiet trip,” Maomao said. 
Some
 people obviously hadn’t encountered any bandits.

“What? You’ve always been peevish, but now you’re downright prickly.”

She took exception to Lahan’s Brother’s tone, but nonetheless she decided to indulge him with an explanation of what had happened. “We were attacked by bandits.”

“They really have those out here?” Lahan’s Brother asked, the blood draining from his face.

Ahh! Now that’s how a normal person would react.
 As she savored Lahan’s Brother’s response she looked at Chue, who had been unconcerned by the attack. Chue seemed downright used to being threatened by criminals, or at the very least unsurprised. Like this was all somehow part of the plan.

Lahan’s Brother’s party consisted of one wagon full of cargo, Lahan’s Brother himself, two sturdy-looking soldiers for guards, three farmers probably there to help, as well as two local guides. And one duck.

Maomao was no logistician, but two guides seemed like one more than they needed. 
Maybe one of them was supposed to be with us?
 Come to think of it, Chue had dodged her question about having a local guide.

They set off again after this second break. It turned out the village was very close. Modest houses were arranged on either side of a river, the surrounding area peppered with trees and farm fields. There was a gently sloping mountain behind the village, but unlike the mountains Maomao knew, it looked as if the grassy plain had simply risen up into a hill. The little white spots she saw were probably sheep. The black ones, maybe oxen. Judging by the number of houses, there couldn’t be more than three hundred people in this village.

As they approached, they were greeted by lowing oxen. Some of the sheep were still fluffy, while others were recently shorn. It was right in the middle of shearing season. The village children, no strangers to physical labor it seemed, were collecting sheep patties into baskets.

“What’s that about?” Basen asked, giving the kids a funny look. Maomao felt they could ask him the very same question, considering he had a duck on his head.

“They use the sheep dung for fuel, I believe. And if you tuck it under your bed, it’s supposed to keep you warm,” she explained.

“Under your bed?!”

“Sure! You didn’t know? Silly little brother,” Chue drawled, not missing an opportunity to give him grief. “Little brother” seemed to be her default name for him when she was tweaking him.

The village was surrounded by a moat and a brick wall. Maybe the bandits didn’t constrain themselves to attacking travelers.

Basen talked to someone at the entrance, and they were quickly allowed in—maybe a messenger had preceded them. The duck hopped off his head and trotted behind him.

An important-looking person Maomao took to be the village headman came out to greet them.

“Oh! Excuse meee!” Before Basen could say anything to him, Chue started chatting volubly with the headman. The headman’s eyes glinted, and he shouted to one of the guides. Chue was smiling broadly about something, while the guide grew paler and paler.

It was impossible to miss the charge in the air. One of the soldier-guards from Lahan’s Brother’s group stood ready behind Chue. She was still smiling and the guide still seemed calm, but it was obvious that the man was being taken away.

Ahh, now I get it.
 Maomao crossed her arms and watched them lead the guide off somewhere.

“Hey, what’s going on?” asked Lahan’s Brother, ever the straight man.

“I suspect they want to ask him for a discount. He promised us a safe route, and yet we got attacked by bandits.”

“Okay, but is it really fair to take it out on him?”

“Fair question, but it sounds like this was the guide’s special road. Guaranteed to be perfectly safe. They even paid extra to learn about it.”

“That’s silly. There’s nothing but grass in every direction. It’s not the guide’s fault they let him dupe them.”

He was right about that. Maomao was making it all up, in fact, saying whatever came to mind. Talk of bandits was too stimulating for Lahan’s Brother, so she changed the subject. While they talked, Basen went up to the headman. His duck, like a faithful dog, followed behind him.

After the two conversed for a while, Basen came over to Maomao. “The headman is going to show us somewhere we can stay tonight.”

“All right.”

“I appreciate your help,” Lahan’s Brother said politely to Basen. He was the son of a distinguished household, no matter how it might seem, and he’d been raised with proper manners. If Lakan hadn’t betrayed his own family, Lahan’s Brother might have been a soldier himself by now.

“Of course. By the way...” Basen looked at Lahan’s Brother. “What should I call you?”

Basen didn’t know Lahan’s Brother’s name either.

“Hoh!” Lahan’s Brother’s eyes filled with hope. This was the moment he had been waiting for.

“I think you can just call him Lahan’s Brother,” Maomao said.

“Hey!” Lahan’s Brother said, clapping a hand on Maomao’s shoulder.

“All right. Lahan’s Brother. Easy to remember. I like it.”

“Listen, you!” Forgetting his manners, Lahan’s Brother wheeled on Basen.

“So there you have it. He’s Lahan’s brother. That’s what he’s called, and that’s what he is. I think you know Lahan, yes? Lahan’s Brother isn’t as quirky as his brother; his brother’s a harmless, normal person. He’s also a professional potato farmer, so we can leave this to him.”

“Who’s normal?! And who’s a farmer?!” Lahan’s Brother demanded, but if he wasn’t a farmer, then what was he? She’d seen him tending those sprawling fields—he could afford to take a little more pride in his work.

“I hear you. If he’s a relative of Master Lakan’s, he deserves to be treated respectfully.”

Maomao had the distinct sense that Basen glanced at her as he said this, but she decided to ignore it. He didn’t seem to view her as falling into that same category.

Frankly, I could almost like that about him.
 Basen didn’t always treat her “respectfully,” to borrow a phrase, but he was easy to work with.

“Ahem...” said the man who looked like the village headman. Apparently that’s what he really was. “May I show you to your quarters?”

“Oh, yes, sure. If you would?”

Relieved, the headman led them to an open space in the middle of the village. “You can use this,” he said, pointing to a portable tent like the ones the nomads used. “This tent belonged to someone who settled here years ago, and it’s still serving its purpose. We keep it warm inside too. The women can stay in the small tent next to it.”

Maomao poked her head in to find that it was indeed warm, made from a frame that looked something like a net covered in felt. There was a carpet on the ground and a fireplace in the middle. Given the lack of windows, one might expect that to result in bad air quality, but a chimney extended from the fireplace to allow the smoke to escape. There was a pile of brown things beside the hearth—maybe the sheep pies the kids had been collecting. The carpet was worked with some kind of pattern. It might not be much, but the village was clearly trying to extend the best hospitality it could.

“Good timing—we were just about to break it down,” the headman said.

“Break it down?” Maomao asked.

“Yes; you see, we had a visitor just the other day as well.”

“Did his name happen to be Rikuson?”

“Y-Yes. Is he an acquaintance of yours?”

Maomao nodded: she knew it. What she still didn’t know was what he’d come here for. She hadn’t seen Rikuson since that first day, so she hadn’t had a chance to ask him.

“It’s already late, so I think for today we should eat and then get some rest. I’ll post a guard outside your tent. That sound all right?” Basen asked.

“Yes, thank you, that’s fine,” said Maomao. She picked up her belongings and moved them to the smaller tent. She slipped off her shoes as she went inside, the fluffy carpet greeting her feet. There were several layers of felt underneath it. She took off her cloak and hung it on something that jutted out of the wall. Then she tossed herself spread eagle on the carpet.

Oops, better look alive.

She gave herself a quick smack on the cheek—the tent was so warm inside, and the carpet was so soft, that she felt like she might doze right off.

Just as she sat up, Chue came in.

“That looks nice, Miss Maomao. I think I’ll join you!” She flung herself down on the carpet and grinned, blissful.

“Before you fall asleep, Miss Chue, can I ask you something?” Maomao tried to organize the thoughts that had been whirling in her head all day. As she considered, she found herself adopting a formal seated position, feet tucked under her behind. Chue mirrored her posture.

“Yep, of course. What is it?” She looked exactly like she always did.

“Those bandits... You were behind that, weren’t you, Miss Chue?”

Chue didn’t so much as blink at the question. “Whatever do you mean, Miss Maomao?” She cocked her head.

“Sorry. That sounded worse than I meant. What I was trying to say was, you 
expected
 the bandits to attack, and you had us come second, as bait, to minimize the harm they would do.”

Still Chue looked unfazed. “What in the world gave you that idea?”

She didn’t seem to be asking purely to throw Maomao off. She enjoyed hearing the answer.

“Well, first, I wondered why we were split into two groups at all. At first I thought maybe you were just trying to be nice to me and make sure I could get here as quickly as possible. I could see the same impulse behind the way Ji—er, I mean, the Moon Prince got us that comfortable saddle. But I couldn’t shake the question: If we were going to split into two groups, why would both of the guides go with just one of them? It didn’t make sense.”

“Hoh! Hmm!”

Chue seemed like a good map reader, but even for her, a guide would be indispensable in unfamiliar territory. It was almost like she had gone out of her way not to have one.

“Secondly, that cloak,” Maomao said, pointing at the garment hanging on the wall.

“Aww, didn’t you like it?”

“I liked it very much. It kept me quite warm. The thing that struck me, though, was how lovely it is.”

“Lovely?”

Maomao looked at the cloak Chue was wearing. “I know you like to be showy, Miss Chue, so if you had two cloaks I might have expected you to take the more elaborate one for yourself. But instead you wore the plainer one.”

“Well, yes, but Miss Chue 
does
 know how to behave herself around her betters.” Her tone suggested otherwise.

“Yes, and the fact that you gave me the nicer cloak implied that it was from the Moon Prince. You bolstered that impression by talking about how he had given you the saddle. You practically had me convinced the cloak was from him too—but it wasn’t, was it?”

Maomao’s cloak had been pleasant to the touch. Covered in delicate embroidery, it would have been obvious what a fine piece of clothing it was, even at a distance.

“A cloak like that is like saying to the bandits ‘Please! Rob me!’ And by wearing a slightly plainer outfit, you made yourself look like the mark’s lady-in-waiting.”

“Hee hee hee! Miss Chue 
is
 practically your lady-in-waiting, Miss Maomao. So what you’re saying is that I separated us into two groups, then deliberately gave you a nicer cloak so that they would attack you?”

“Not so much attack me specifically. It’s more like you wanted to put all the best targets in one place.” This time Chue blinked. “If we’d all traveled with the wagon, it would have been quite a production. Having some soldiers around would have given us an advantage in battle, but we’d also have been with people who 
weren’t
 accustomed to being attacked. If we let them get traumatized, it might have had a negative impact on our work—not to mention the distinct possibility that they might be taken as hostages.”

The relentlessly ordinary Lahan’s Brother was a perfectly strong, healthy guy, but he didn’t seem like an experienced brawler. Maomao suspected he was as afraid of a fight as the next person.

“If, instead, we went in two groups, one of which was not only smaller but included someone who obviously looked like money, the bandits would be more likely to attack that group. Two women, one man—the man being Master Basen, who despite his outrageous strength still has that baby face and a relatively small build for a soldier. When they said to leave the women, they weren’t thinking of selling us, were they? It was about the potential for ransom.”

The bandits would never have expected Basen to turn out to be a bear in a man’s clothing. But he was a lion-slayer, after all.

“That’s all very clever, Miss Maomao, but if it’s true, how did Miss Chue draw those bandits out at exactly the right moment? You can wear all the nice cloaks you want, but they were obviously waiting for us. They showed up at the perfect time, you might say.”

“That would actually explain why you were talking to one of the guides earlier. Here’s the third thing that made me suspicious: you spoke to one of the guides as soon as we arrived in the village. I think it’s reasonable to assume that you thought one of them was crooked before you ever hired them.” She thought of how the man paled as Chue spoke. “Before that first group left, you told each of the guides different things, didn’t you? Like which watering hole the second group would use. You pull out a map and say you want to make sure of where you can take a rest. Convenient way to let them know where you’re going to be, isn’t it?”

There were any number of ways the guide might have slipped information to the bandits, even if Maomao didn’t know exactly which one he’d used. 
Who knows. Could have been pigeons, like the White Lady.

“You deliberately hired a shady guide, someone you thought was in cahoots with bandits. Then you told each of them that you would be resting at a different location, so that you knew where you might be attacked. Was that so you could be sure which of the guides was clean? What if they’d both been dirty?”

Chue raised her hands in a gesture of surrender. “It was just the one of them!” she chirped. “I knew exactly who the other one was.”

“Was this on the Moon Prince’s orders?” Maomao had begged Jinshi to use her like a tool, so a situation like this wasn’t completely unexpected. But it was out of character for him.

“No, it wasn’t. You guessed right; I got the cloak for you.”

“Is that so?”

It probably really wasn’t Jinshi, then. Did Chue belong to some chain of command that didn’t include him?

“You make Miss Chue’s life very hard, Miss Maomao, being so smart. Did you know that?”

“You don’t make my life any easier, Miss Chue, with the way I never know what you’re thinking.”

They both sighed.

“Miss Maomao, I have two requests.”

“Yes?”

“Miss Chue is always her cheerful, easygoing Chue self, so please always treat Miss Chue as you 
would
 treat Miss Chue.” She pulled out a string of little flags. 
Shoop
.

“I’m...not sure what that means, but okay.” Maomao took the string and let it dangle from her fingers, unsure what else to do with it.

“In that case, Miss Maomao, Miss Chue has one other request for you. And it comes with a question.”

“Yes?”

“What made you think that that lovely, expensive cloak might 
not
 have come from the Moon Prince?” She seemed genuinely curious.

“I just thought that if he gave me something like that, it would have been of fine make, but more subdued. More practical.”

“Is that all?”

“That’s where we are right now.”

Jinshi had started to understand Maomao’s preferences.

Chue narrowed her eyes and looked to the entrance of the tent.

“Terribly sorry to disturb you,” a woman said from outside.

“Yes? Come in,” Maomao said, and there was a rustling of felt.

“Excuse me,” said a middle-aged woman, peering in. She was holding reins. “I’ve brought three goats as you asked. What would you like me to do with them?”

“Great! Thank you. Here’s payment.” Chue pressed some coins into the woman’s hand. She must have asked for these animals before coming to the tent.

Is she planning to take those goats home?

If she just wanted to eat them, it would be cheaper to buy some that had already been killed and butchered—and she wouldn’t need three of them. Between the goats and the duck, they were on their way to having their own farm.

Chue took the goats’ reins and dug through her luggage until she came up with a heavy-looking bag.

“What’s that?”

“It’s salt! We’re not near the ocean, and you can’t get rock salt around here, so salt is a treasured commodity. One our goat friends happen to love!”

“And, uh, what is this salt for?” Maomao couldn’t imagine where Chue was going with this.

Chue grinned. “Negotiating! With the goats and the salt. Miss Chue is a pacifist, you see. She likes to do things the quiet way when she can. I’m sleepy, but I’ve got to take care of a job. You just rest your poor, tired self, Miss Maomao.”

Chue twirled back toward the entrance of the tent, and then she was gone, goats and all.