“It’s already late, so I think for today we should eat and then get some rest. I’ll post a guard outside your tent. That sound all right?” Basen asked.

“Yes, thank you, that’s fine,” said Maomao. She picked up her belongings and moved them to the smaller tent. She slipped off her shoes as she went inside, the fluffy carpet greeting her feet. There were several layers of felt underneath it. She took off her cloak and hung it on something that jutted out of the wall. Then she tossed herself spread eagle on the carpet.

Oops, better look alive.

She gave herself a quick smack on the cheek—the tent was so warm inside, and the carpet was so soft, that she felt like she might doze right off.

Just as she sat up, Chue came in.

“That looks nice, Miss Maomao. I think I’ll join you!” She flung herself down on the carpet and grinned, blissful.

“Before you fall asleep, Miss Chue, can I ask you something?” Maomao tried to organize the thoughts that had been whirling in her head all day. As she considered, she found herself adopting a formal seated position, feet tucked under her behind. Chue mirrored her posture.

“Yep, of course. What is it?” She looked exactly like she always did.

“Those bandits... You were behind that, weren’t you, Miss Chue?”

Chue didn’t so much as blink at the question. “Whatever do you mean, Miss Maomao?” She cocked her head.

“Sorry. That sounded worse than I meant. What I was trying to say was, you 
expected
 the bandits to attack, and you had us come second, as bait, to minimize the harm they would do.”

Still Chue looked unfazed. “What in the world gave you that idea?”

She didn’t seem to be asking purely to throw Maomao off. She enjoyed hearing the answer.

“Well, first, I wondered why we were split into two groups at all. At first I thought maybe you were just trying to be nice to me and make sure I could get here as quickly as possible. I could see the same impulse behind the way Ji—er, I mean, the Moon Prince got us that comfortable saddle. But I couldn’t shake the question: If we were going to split into two groups, why would both of the guides go with just one of them? It didn’t make sense.”

“Hoh! Hmm!”

Chue seemed like a good map reader, but even for her, a guide would be indispensable in unfamiliar territory. It was almost like she had gone out of her way not to have one.

“Secondly, that cloak,” Maomao said, pointing at the garment hanging on the wall.

“Aww, didn’t you like it?”

“I liked it very much. It kept me quite warm. The thing that struck me, though, was how lovely it is.”

“Lovely?”

Maomao looked at the cloak Chue was wearing. “I know you like to be showy, Miss Chue, so if you had two cloaks I might have expected you to take the more elaborate one for yourself. But instead you wore the plainer one.”

“Well, yes, but Miss Chue 
does
 know how to behave herself around her betters.” Her tone suggested otherwise.

“Yes, and the fact that you gave me the nicer cloak implied that it was from the Moon Prince. You bolstered that impression by talking about how he had given you the saddle. You practically had me convinced the cloak was from him too—but it wasn’t, was it?”

Maomao’s cloak had been pleasant to the touch. Covered in delicate embroidery, it would have been obvious what a fine piece of clothing it was, even at a distance.

“A cloak like that is like saying to the bandits ‘Please! Rob me!’ And by wearing a slightly plainer outfit, you made yourself look like the mark’s lady-in-waiting.”

“Hee hee hee! Miss Chue 
is
 practically your lady-in-waiting, Miss Maomao. So what you’re saying is that I separated us into two groups, then deliberately gave you a nicer cloak so that they would attack you?”

“Not so much attack me specifically. It’s more like you wanted to put all the best targets in one place.” This time Chue blinked. “If we’d all traveled with the wagon, it would have been quite a production. Having some soldiers around would have given us an advantage in battle, but we’d also have been with people who 
weren’t
 accustomed to being attacked. If we let them get traumatized, it might have had a negative impact on our work—not to mention the distinct possibility that they might be taken as hostages.”

The relentlessly ordinary Lahan’s Brother was a perfectly strong, healthy guy, but he didn’t seem like an experienced brawler. Maomao suspected he was as afraid of a fight as the next person.

“If, instead, we went in two groups, one of which was not only smaller but included someone who obviously looked like money, the bandits would be more likely to attack that group. Two women, one man—the man being Master Basen, who despite his outrageous strength still has that baby face and a relatively small build for a soldier. When they said to leave the women, they weren’t thinking of selling us, were they? It was about the potential for ransom.”

The bandits would never have expected Basen to turn out to be a bear in a man’s clothing. But he was a lion-slayer, after all.

“That’s all very clever, Miss Maomao, but if it’s true, how did Miss Chue draw those bandits out at exactly the right moment? You can wear all the nice cloaks you want, but they were obviously waiting for us. They showed up at the perfect time, you might say.”

“That would actually explain why you were talking to one of the guides earlier. Here’s the third thing that made me suspicious: you spoke to one of the guides as soon as we arrived in the village. I think it’s reasonable to assume that you thought one of them was crooked before you ever hired them.” She thought of how the man paled as Chue spoke. “Before that first group left, you told each of the guides different things, didn’t you? Like which watering hole the second group would use. You pull out a map and say you want to make sure of where you can take a rest. Convenient way to let them know where you’re going to be, isn’t it?”

There were any number of ways the guide might have slipped information to the bandits, even if Maomao didn’t know exactly which one he’d used. 
Who knows. Could have been pigeons, like the White Lady.

“You deliberately hired a shady guide, someone you thought was in cahoots with bandits. Then you told each of them that you would be resting at a different location, so that you knew where you might be attacked. Was that so you could be sure which of the guides was clean? What if they’d both been dirty?”

Chue raised her hands in a gesture of surrender. “It was just the one of them!” she chirped. “I knew exactly who the other one was.”

“Was this on the Moon Prince’s orders?” Maomao had begged Jinshi to use her like a tool, so a situation like this wasn’t completely unexpected. But it was out of character for him.

“No, it wasn’t. You guessed right; I got the cloak for you.”

“Is that so?”

It probably really wasn’t Jinshi, then. Did Chue belong to some chain of command that didn’t include him?

“You make Miss Chue’s life very hard, Miss Maomao, being so smart. Did you know that?”

“You don’t make my life any easier, Miss Chue, with the way I never know what you’re thinking.”

They both sighed.

“Miss Maomao, I have two requests.”

“Yes?”

“Miss Chue is always her cheerful, easygoing Chue self, so please always treat Miss Chue as you 
would
 treat Miss Chue.” She pulled out a string of little flags. 
Shoop
.

“I’m...not sure what that means, but okay.” Maomao took the string and let it dangle from her fingers, unsure what else to do with it.

“In that case, Miss Maomao, Miss Chue has one other request for you. And it comes with a question.”

“Yes?”

“What made you think that that lovely, expensive cloak might 
not
 have come from the Moon Prince?” She seemed genuinely curious.

“I just thought that if he gave me something like that, it would have been of fine make, but more subdued. More practical.”

“Is that all?”

“That’s where we are right now.”

Jinshi had started to understand Maomao’s preferences.

Chue narrowed her eyes and looked to the entrance of the tent.

“Terribly sorry to disturb you,” a woman said from outside.

“Yes? Come in,” Maomao said, and there was a rustling of felt.

“Excuse me,” said a middle-aged woman, peering in. She was holding reins. “I’ve brought three goats as you asked. What would you like me to do with them?”

“Great! Thank you. Here’s payment.” Chue pressed some coins into the woman’s hand. She must have asked for these animals before coming to the tent.

Is she planning to take those goats home?

If she just wanted to eat them, it would be cheaper to buy some that had already been killed and butchered—and she wouldn’t need three of them. Between the goats and the duck, they were on their way to having their own farm.

Chue took the goats’ reins and dug through her luggage until she came up with a heavy-looking bag.

“What’s that?”

“It’s salt! We’re not near the ocean, and you can’t get rock salt around here, so salt is a treasured commodity. One our goat friends happen to love!”

“And, uh, what is this salt for?” Maomao couldn’t imagine where Chue was going with this.

Chue grinned. “Negotiating! With the goats and the salt. Miss Chue is a pacifist, you see. She likes to do things the quiet way when she can. I’m sleepy, but I’ve got to take care of a job. You just rest your poor, tired self, Miss Maomao.”

Chue twirled back toward the entrance of the tent, and then she was gone, goats and all.