Oh yeah, they’re in-laws, aren’t they?
 Maomao thought. She got the impression Chue teased Basen a lot.

“If it’s not food, then what is it? Your pet?” Chue asked.

The duck did seem noticeably attached to Basen—it held on to his head with its wings and preened his hair.

“I’ve been hatching ducks and distributing them to farming villages on the Moon Prince’s orders. I was going to leave Jofu in one of the villages, but she’s taken too much of a liking to me and won’t leave.”

“Oh, I see,” said Chue. Seeing as Basen had given the duck a name, he was evidently taken with her as well. The duck, demonstrating her native intelligence, hopped down off Basen’s shoulder and pooped on the ground. Smart.

“I have to go see the Moon Prince. Is there anyone who could take care of Jofu for me?”

“Ooh! I will!” Chue said, sticking her hand in the air.

“Is there anyone else?”

“Not sure I’d be much better,” Maomao said. She was already drooling. 
I remember the duck En’en prepared back at Lahan’s place. Boy, that was good.
 She didn’t trust herself not to be bested by her own appetite. 
Maybe we could get the quack to take care of her?

No, no, there was someone even more appropriate.

“I know a farmer who would be perfect. I’ll ask him,” she said.

“A farmer? Wait, you have acquaintances in the western capital?”

“No, he was sent here from the central region.”

Basen remained puzzled, but there wasn’t much more Maomao could say. It was the truth. In any case, they could entrust the duck to Lahan’s Brother.

Basen had been in the western capital two full days when Maomao finally got permission to tour a farming village.

“You could take your time, young lady. We’ve plenty of medicine still. No need to go rushing off to the fringes of a place we hardly know yet,” said the quack doctor, who took her excuse entirely at face value. There had to be some reason, after all, for a court lady serving as a medical assistant to leave her post and go on an inspection tour.

“It’s all right, sir. Who knows? I might even find some unknown drug.”

That much was true. I-sei Province was home to different flora and fauna than Kaou. There was no telling what plants or animals she might encounter, and what their potential medicinal properties might be. Maomao was actually a bit excited—she hoped she could find interesting medicines.

She brought the absolute minimum of belongings, only what she could fit into a bag. She asked that some gold nuggets or silver chunks be prepared for her in case she needed cash on hand for anything—unprocessed precious metals would be the most versatile and effective forms of payment in I-sei Province, which did so much trade with other nations.

“Huh. Do they normally send court ladies on jobs like this?” asked Tianyu with a skeptical look.

“I guess not? But I was hired more as an apothecary than a physician, so it was always possible they would send me on this kind of errand.”

In order to come up with a pesticide.

“Huh. An apothecary. Here I thought it was pure nepotism that got you where you are, Niangniang.” Tianyu sure did know how to needle a person.

“Oh, come now, don’t be like that. You mustn’t be so suspicious, my boy.”

Oh, my poor quack. You’re the one who needs to be more suspicious.

Few were the people in the world uninvolved enough that it wasn’t worth asking questions about them.

“If you say so, mister. Have a good time, Niangniang.” That appeared to be all Tianyu meant to contribute to the conversation, because he flopped over on one of the patient cots and waved over his shoulder.

The quack gave Maomao a package of snacks and waved too. “See you soon!”

“Don’t worry, I’ll keep an eye on things while you’re away!” Lihaku said. Yes, with him there, at least she wouldn’t have to worry about the quack doctor.

“Took you long enough.”

“She’s right on time!”

Basen and Chue were waiting for her at the entrance to the annex. Maomao had been told to wait until Basen arrived in the western capital so that he could go with her as her bodyguard and Lihaku could stay here.

Maomao looked around. 
Isn’t there supposed to be someone else?
 “Er, is this it? I thought we were supposed to be bringing seed potatoes.” Along with Lahan’s Brother, for that matter, but she only saw a couple of horses. “Where’s the wagon with the potatoes?”

Chue stuck her hand in the air. “I’ll field this one! The seed potatoes 
are
 going by wagon, but the wagon is so much slower that we gave them a head start! It was the other guy’s idea—the guy driving the wagon. I don’t know how to describe him. Not very memorable. And as for why I’m here, it’s because you’re already such a dear friend of mine, Miss Maomao! Miss Chue begged to go along with you, or she would spend all her time worrying how you were doing in lands unknown!”

“What I’m hearing is, it sounded like fun so you decided to tag along.”

The unmemorable wagon driver had to be Lahan’s Brother. Maomao realized Chue hadn’t officially met him yet.

Rather than actually saying Maomao was right, Chue produced a string of small flags.

“And what takes you on a tour of the farming villages, Master Basen?” Maomao asked, just to be polite.

“The Moon Prince’s orders. He told me to guard you with my life. He doesn’t want Master Lakan going on a rampage in the western capital.”

There was nothing Maomao could say to that. She especially couldn’t say that she thought Lihaku might have been a better choice for the job.

It sounded like Basen had some idea of her connection to the old fart, but since he still treated her just the same way he always had, she decided to let it go.

Seems like practically everyone I meet these days knows.
 She was discovering that everyone around her seemed aware of something she herself would rather not admit. The freak strategist’s behavior couldn’t be swept under the rug here.

But what can I do? We’re not related, so.

Maomao decided now was no time to rethink her attitude.

“My father is here as the Moon Prince’s guard. I’m sure it’ll be fine,” Basen said, although he sounded like he was mostly trying to convince himself. He might have been starting to wonder why Jinshi seemed to be keeping him at arm’s length recently.

I hope he’s not getting frustrated
, Maomao thought. She’d been concerned about Basen’s psychological state, but he appeared surprisingly stable. Slightly calmer and more mature than before, in fact.

“Is it just me, little brother, or have you turned over a new leaf?” Chue said, nudging him. She seemed to share Maomao’s intuition.

“Wh-What? Why would you ask that?”

In any case, it was true that Gaoshun was here to serve as Jinshi’s bodyguard. Jinshi might well have some enemies in the western capital, but they weren’t actually likely to try to lay a hand on him.

If someone important is assassinated in the middle of a long journey, it’s the local ruler who has to face the music.

Maomao didn’t know much about Gyoku-ou, but she’d like to think that he wouldn’t allow his most important visitor to find himself in danger.

Chue grinned, then climbed onto her horse and put her feet in the stirrups. She was wearing not a skirt, but a pair of trousers.

“All right. The village is about forty kilometers from here. We should reach it in four hours or so,” Basen said.

“Sounds like we’ll still catch that wagon! How about we take a little detour?” Chue suggested.

“Unfortunately, this isn’t the capital, and there aren’t many tea houses around. You’re welcome to share some grass with your horse if you want,” Basen said, unruffled by Chue’s tweak.

She is his older brother’s wife, as far as it goes.
 Basen seemed to be showing her a certain measure of respect, although Chue treated him the same way she seemed to treat everyone.

“Which would you like to ride, Miss Maomao?” Chue asked.

“I’m not sure I have a good answer to that.”

There were two horses, and Maomao didn’t know how to ride by herself, so she would have to ride with one of the others. It didn’t really matter to her who.

“Okay, you can be behind Miss Chue, then! Mister Basen’s saddle is hard—tough on the bum! Miss Chue’s saddle is nicely tanned, highly shock-absorbent, and easy to sit in for long hours on the trail! Tell me, which would you like better?”

Needless to say, Maomao pointed at Chue.

“Just a second, where did you get such a nice saddle? I thought we were borrowing these horses.”

“Yes, but the Moon Prince is a very thoughtful man. He does good work, every once in a while.”

“And just what do you mean by that?” Basen snapped, displeased by this backhanded compliment. At least in that way, he was still Basen.

“What do I mean? The moment the Moon Prince said he was assigning you to guard duty, I said that then shouldn’t there be another woman to chaperone, and he looked like he had seen the light! Don’t you worry, Miss Maomao, the ever-thoughtful Miss Chue has your back. Your spirit may be stouter than a stern log, but your body is so delicate you would probably die if someone punched you. Miss Chue knew you couldn’t be trusted to Basen by himself—he doesn’t know his own strength! You should be grateful to me.”

I probably 
would
 die if someone punched me.

Maomao was not exactly the brawny type. She could endure poisons of all kinds, but physical assault would quickly prove her undoing.

“You should be grateful too, little brother. You can call me Miss Chue—or Honored Elder Sister, if you prefer.”

“Hngh...” Basen was never going to outtalk Chue. He could only hang his head.

With the winner of the conversation decided, the three set off.

There was nothing particularly remarkable about the journey. From the city they headed west across empty plains, sticking to a strip of bare earth that seemed to pass for a road. Once or twice they crossed paths with caravans coming the other way. Sometimes they saw tents belonging to nomads, the families’ children tending the goats or sheep.

Is that the horizon?
 Maomao wondered. Her old man, Luomen, had explained that there was a theory that the world was a sphere, and that this was evidenced by the fact that on open land, you could see a slight curvature along the horizon in the far distance. Maomao thought she did indeed see a bend.

She didn’t know for sure whether it was true that the world was round, but if so, it would explain why the stars moved. Or anyway, so Luomen had said. Now she wished she had paid more attention, but unfortunately, most of his explanation hadn’t stuck with her. She realized with chagrin that it must’ve been one of the things he had learned while studying in a foreign land, and here she had ignored it.

It was surprisingly cold on the plains, though it was spring. There was plenty of sunshine, but also a wind that sapped the body’s heat. What was more, the air was so dry—and a bit thin. They were high above sea level.

“Here you go, Miss Maomao,” Chue said, passing her a cloak. It was made of wool that blocked the wind and was worked with embroidery so fine that it would have looked distinguished even in the capital.

Chue was wearing a cloak too. It looked equally warm, but was somewhat plainer than the one she had given Maomao—oddly subdued for Chue, who normally liked to be the center of attention.

Basen’s cloak was simple but practical. He also, notably, wore gloves to keep his hands warm on the reins.

Pressed up against Chue and with the cloak on her back, Maomao was able to stay warm, but the wind and the sun still got at every part of her that was exposed.

Wish I had some of my sisters’ balms right now.
 Between the strong sun and dry air, she was concerned about tanning. She’d applied a sun-blocking ointment, but what about Chue? Her skin was darker than Maomao’s but appeared perfectly healthy.

“Miss Chue, I have something to prevent tanning. You want some? It’ll keep your skin from drying out too.” It was worth asking, she figured. If she ran out, she could just make more with the components they had at the western capital.

“Ooh, can I? Miss Chue has always been a little darker, so tans don’t stand out so much, but she’d be happy to try it!”

“Sure. I’ll give you some when we take a break.”

Basen had informed them that there was nowhere along the road for any pleasant diversions, but they would have to rest the horses at some point. There was plenty of grass everywhere for the animals to eat, but if they could stop somewhere there was water, so much the better. And just at that moment, a river came into sight.

“We’ll take a short break there,” Basen called.

“Yeppers!” said Chue.

“All right,” said Maomao.

When they reached the water, Maomao found it wasn’t so much a river as a very large puddle. The water was shallow and there was no current. It had probably been formed by a rainstorm, and would soon be dry again.

There were trees growing nearby, shading large rocks with patterns carved into them. Signposts to here, there, and everywhere, Maomao surmised.

She gazed at the trees growing around the watering hole. 
Are those pomegranate trees?
 The leaves looked like it, somehow. A few of the branches bobbed gently. Maybe there were birds perching in them. She could see some at the water, along with a group of wild horses getting a drink.

“There might be snakes around,” Chue said.

“Ooh, you think?”

Maomao and Chue looked, but they didn’t find any. There was a hole in the ground that looked like a den, but when they dug at it a rat came out. They’d brought provisions, so they let the rodent get away.

Tall grass grew by the water’s edge. Maomao knew from her research that beefwood and licorice were endemic to this area, but she didn’t see any. Not that she would have expected to find significant quantities in one place.

I guess it was a lot to hope for.

She did, however, find some grass with a unique scent. It was taller than your average grass but not as tall as a tree, and looked like mugwort. If its medicinal properties were anything like mugwort’s, it might be useful in exterminating insects. Maomao took a sample in hopes of finding out, and collected a few other intriguing plants as well.

Chue clapped her hands and called, “Miss Maomao! Lunch is ready!”

Maomao and her companions sat on a blanket, eating meat and pickled vegetables sandwiched between pieces of bread. Maomao found she had sweated profusely despite only riding along; her body was ravenous for water and salt. It made the pickled vegetables taste very good indeed.

No sooner had he finished eating than Basen started studying a map. He took a floating compass out of his bag and floated it in the water. Maomao and Chue watched him.

Maomao asked the obvious question. “What good is a map out on the open plains?”

“It’s better than nothing, but you’re right that there aren’t a lot of landmarks out here,” Chue commented. “Between the compass and the position of the sun, I think it looks like we should edge north a little bit. As long as there’s nothing to block the view, we should be able to see houses—that’ll be our destination.” She might sound flippant, but she was surprisingly capable. Evidently, she could even do land navigation. Basen looked away, seeming to feel a little awkward.

“May I ask something else?” said Maomao.

“Anything you like, Miss Maomao.”

“Why don’t we have a local guide?”

Frankly, she wished she had asked sooner. She’d figured they were just going to a nearby village—they weren’t leaving Li or anything—and that a guide wouldn’t be necessary, but this was turning into a more elaborate trip than she had expected. A long journey was never precisely safe, even within national borders. It was best to have someone who knew the territory inside and out.

“Funny you should ask that,” Chue said, glancing around. Basen was looking too, his gaze hard. His hand was on the hilt of his sword and he was obviously ready to leap into battle.

I don’t like where this is going.

Chue stood in front of Maomao. “Okay! Just stay right there, Miss Maomao; don’t move an inch.”

Maomao discovered that they were surrounded by strange men; she almost hadn’t seen them emerge. They were scruffy-looking types who spoke Linese with a strong accent. As for what they said, it was your standard threats, make-with-the-cash demands, and so on. And of course, they wanted to be left with the women.

These were bandits if Maomao had ever seen them.

Wonder if I have any particular value as a woman.
 Neither Maomao nor Chue was especially attractive; she doubted they would fetch much of a price if the bandits tried to sell them. It wasn’t a particularly happy thought, and her heart was starting to race. She took a few slow, deep breaths to try to calm herself.

“Miss Maomao, feel free to close your eyes. If they try anything, Miss Chue will use her married-woman appeal to get us out of it!”

She seemed very confident. In fact, she seemed to be looking down her low-set nose at them.

Maomao, however, wasn’t eager to close her eyes. She reached into her bag and found a sewing needle and some bug repellent. They wouldn’t be enough to do any serious damage, but they might set their attackers back on their heels for a moment.

As it happened, though, they didn’t need Chue’s allure or Maomao’s sewing needle.

There was an audible 
crack
, and then Bandit No. 1 went flying clean past Maomao.

There was a noticeable 
crunch
, and Bandit No. 2 collapsed to the ground, holding his arm and writhing.

There was a distinct 
snap
, and Bandit No. 3 went down, spitting a mix of saliva, blood, and teeth.

There was no restraint. A fight in a stage play would have lasted longer. Frankly, it almost felt like too little to describe.

Basen had reached for his sword—but that didn’t mean he was going to use it.

He took them all out bare-handed!
 thought Maomao, flabbergasted. She took several more breaths, then came back to herself and rushed over to Basen. “Let me see your hand!”

“Er, yeah...”

Basen, looking a little surprised, slipped off his glove and held out his hand. The fingers didn’t look broken, and the wrist seemed intact. In addition to being preternaturally strong, Basen, so Maomao had heard, was less susceptible to pain than most people. It meant he could sometimes injure himself with his displays of strength.

I don’t understand it.

After all those terrible noises, she would have expected the person administering the beatings to at least have hurt their hand. There had to be some reason Basen was completely unharmed.

She took his glove and soon discovered the explanation. Outwardly it was made of wool and looked quite soft, but it felt heavy. There was some kind of metal inside. Basen’s brute strength combined with a weighted glove? It was almost enough to make her feel sorry for the bandits.

Speaking of the bandits, Chue was flitting from one to the next, tying them up. Then she tied the three of them together before she put up her feet and wiped the sweat from her brow with a sigh.

“What are we going to do with them?” Maomao asked.