“I’m just glad my dad isn’t here. He’d vow to 
make
 them understand the glory of potatoes, and then who knows what he’d do!”

“If you’ll excuse my saying so, I can’t picture Lahan’s Father taking matters into his own hands like that.” In Maomao’s mind, he was an easygoing, almost Luomen-esque figure. “And also... The glory of potatoes?”

“Oh, he would describe the beauty of the flowers, the shape of the leaves, the graceful, supple roots...”

“They’re 
potatoes
. He could at least focus on their deliciousness.”

Maomao looked over at the siblings following Chue around. She set down her jar and went over to them.

“Say, would you like another of those potatoes?” she asked, squatting down so she was eye level with them.

“Yes, we would!”

“Want potatoes!”

The kids’ eyes sparkled.

“We’ve never ate something so sweet before! It was sweeter than raisins!”

“Raisins?” Maomao said.

“Sweets are valuable around here,” Chue interjected. “They don’t have honey, and sugar doesn’t come cheap.” She placed her large jar on her head and spun around.

So sweets are worth more here than in the central region.

“I think we can use this.” Maomao headed back to Lahan’s Brother, grinning.

There was a big hole dug behind Nianzhen’s house. It was covered in scorch marks—maybe it was normally for burning trash or something.

“This is where you burn the grasshopper eggs?” Maomao asked him.

“’S right. They don’t burn easy, so you have to add fuel.”

Presumably meaning oil or animal dung. The firewood and charcoal that Maomao and the others took for granted would almost pass for luxury products around here.

“Since we’ve got all these eggs to burn, I wouldn’t mind trying something different,” Maomao suggested.

Nianzhen gave her a look. “Whatever works. What did you have in mind?”

“Maybe I could borrow this.” She touched a big pot sitting outside. It was old, but sturdy; if they got the rust off, it looked like it would be quite usable. The dry grass and dead insects inside attested to how long it had been sitting there.

“Sure. Have fun.”

Maomao promptly turned the pot over and began scrubbing it with a reed scrub brush.

“Here you go, Miss Maomao!” Chue said. She had hauled water from the river, which Maomao gladly used. “That’s quite a pot you’ve got there! Big enough to make 
qingjiao rousi
 for thirty people!”

“I wonder if they used it for cooking,” Maomao said as she and Chue faced each other over the pot, scrubbing away.

“That was for making the serfs’ rice. They’d cook up an entire day’s worth at once,” said Nianzhen.

“Huh! So there were plenty of serfs,” said Chue. Maomao had told her Nianzhen’s story, but the unusual lady-in-waiting didn’t seem much bothered. It was as if it hardly mattered to her whether she was dealing with a former bandit or even a killer. “So was this a serving dish?” Chue picked up a round, metal plate.

“That’s a mirror. Used to be in the shrine.”

Mirrors were sometimes used for ritual purposes. This one might have been polished to a shine once upon a time, but now it was streaked with rust and reflected almost nothing.

“As long as we’re polishing things, you want us to polish this?” Chue said, rubbing it with her arm.

“Sure, if you would. Haven’t had time myself.”

Perhaps the serfs had shared the duty of polishing it, once again in some long-ago time, but it was simply too much for Nianzhen to get to by himself.

How much do the villagers really know?
 Maomao wondered. They seemed to treat Nianzhen as an eccentric, but they weren’t openly hostile toward him. Nor did they seem particularly worried about an insect plague. Was it possible the villagers were pretty laid-back?

Maomao couldn’t stop herself from musing, “Wonder if this village would survive if it was ever hit by bandits.”

She was speaking almost to herself, but Chue chirped, “Oh, they would be fine! They might be settled now, but they used to be nomads. They have bows and swords in their huts, all strung and sharpened and ready to go. Plus they know the terrain—you’d have to be a very brave bandit to attack this place!”

“That explains why they go after travelers instead,” Maomao said.

What did ever happen to that guide of ours?

It seemed like it might be better left unthought-about, but there was something she had to ask. “Why did you decide to have us be the bait, Miss Chue? Master Basen didn’t seem like he knew what you were planning, and it would be unlike the Moon Prince to order us to do something like that.”

Jinshi seemed to be quite alert to Maomao’s safety these days—even Basen’s presence as their bodyguard seemed like an act of consideration from him.

Chue narrowed her already small eyes, making them even smaller. “My orders were to minimize risk. And isn’t it safer to know when and where you’ll be attacked, rather than not having any idea when the enemy will strike?”

So Chue had been thinking of safety too, in her own way.

“All right, but I think normally you try to 
hide
 how much danger people are in. It makes them less jumpy.”

“I know you’ve got a lot of guts, Miss Maomao. Anyway, I thought maybe you’d appreciate the more logical approach.”

“I just want to say for the record that if someone punched me, I would die.”

“Understood and duly noted! But if we need anyone to survive any poisons, you’ll be up!”

Chue certainly knew who was good for what.

As they chatted, the pot got progressively cleaner. Nianzhen was doing some other work nearby.

“What would you like us to do with this? I mean, with this pot?” Chue called.

“Put the grasshopper eggs in it,” he replied.

Chue recoiled with almost comical intensity. “Miss Maomao...”

“No, no, Miss Chue, don’t worry. We’re not going to eat them. I promise.”

“You 
promise
 promise?” Chue still didn’t look like she believed her.

“Yes. They don’t look very tasty, do they? And they’re disgusting. We should know, we gathered them.” Mature bugs she had eaten, but even she would say no to insect eggs. “We’ll pour oil on these—”

“And fry them?”

“And burn them.”

“Burn them?”

Maomao took the pot and headed toward the shrine. It was of modest brick construction, but if it were cleaned and decorated it would be suitably imposing.

“I say we light a fire here. That seems ritual-ish, doesn’t it?” Maomao asked.

“Oh-ho,” said Chue.

“And a ritual needs a feast, right?” Maomao looked at the kids from the village, who were still hanging around. Word about the potatoes must’ve traveled, because there was a small crowd in addition to the brother and sister.

“
I
 see what you’re getting at.” Chue laughed. She saw where Maomao was going with this—good. “You just leave the decorations to me!” She pulled a length of red ribbon from her collar. “We’ll need a platform for our lovely pot. I’ll get Lahan’s Brother and my little brother-in-law to help!”

Apparently, Chue now also called him “Lahan’s Brother.”

Chue focused on building the platform, so Maomao was left to prepare the meal. She borrowed the oven in Nianzhen’s house to whip something up. Maomao sometimes felt like she was standing in En’en’s pro-chef shadow, but the fact was, she wasn’t a half-bad cook herself.

Cooking is basically just like mixing up drugs, but with food.
 You put the ingredients and the garnishes together to make something tasty.

“What’re you doing?” Nianzhen asked, narrowing his remaining eye.

“Ritual.”

“How’s that again?”

“Rituals are supposed to be joyous celebrations, are they not, sir? And for that, you need a feast.”

“I suppose you’ve got me there...” He looked uneasy; his gaze settled on Lahan’s Brother.

“Stop! Don’t use 
all
 of them! I only brought so many, you know!”

What was “them”? The seed potatoes, of course. They had decided to make this festival a big one.

“I know, I know. Less whining, more steaming!”

“You can’t talk to people like—Grr!”

Lahan’s Brother grumbled angrily to himself, but he put more fuel in the stove. He was using two sticks to pick it up—maybe he felt an instinctive resistance to handling sheep dung with his bare hands, even if it was dried.

“You can use whatever tools I have around my house. If you use up my food, I’d appreciate if you could spare me a few coins for it. I live right on the edge,” Nianzhen said.

“Thank you, sir,” Maomao said.

“I’m going to get some sleep,” said Nianzhen, lying down on the crude bed. He looked hardy, but he was an old man, and days on end of work in the fields took their toll.

“Sweet potatoes get their sweetest when slow-cooked, right?” Maomao asked.

“Yes! You can’t just roast them over a big, hot flame!”

So it’s not just potato farming he’s so well-versed in. It’s potato cooking too.

It looked like Lahan had been relying in no small measure on Lahan’s Brother to dream up ways to use sweet potatoes. Lahan’s Brother could be rough on his younger sibling, but he was fundamentally a decent person—too decent. The way he made a point of pushing back at everything suggested an ordinary but belated rebellious phase.

“I’m not a very versatile cook. What do you think we can make with the ingredients on hand here?” Maomao asked.

“Why are you asking me?!”

“Because Miss Chue is more the eating type, and Master Basen won’t be any help.”

Chue seemed like she might have been able to make congee, if she really had to, but when it came to more elaborate dishes, she was focused on consumption rather than production.

“Well, I don’t know,” Lahan’s Brother said flatly. He looked away from her, but he was obviously lying.

“I see,” said Maomao. “I’m sorry... I was just hoping to treat them to something they’d really enjoy.”

She looked back, toward the door, where children were peeking in. The crowd of kids accompanying the brother and sister had grown to substantial proportions.

“Oh, look at all your friends,” she said, uncharacteristically speaking directly to the children. “I’ll bet you were all hoping you could have something special. Something delicious.”

“What?” asked the sister, on the verge of tears. “You mean... You mean we don’t get to eat potatoes?”

“Oh, you will, you will. It’s just... I’m sorry. I won’t be able to make them taste very good by myself.”