Maybe she would start tomorrow, though. It sounded like a lot of work right now. She was just changing into her sleepwear when she heard a knock at the door.

“Come in?” she said.

“And a very good evening to you!”

Chue appeared, now dressed in an ordinary lady-in-waiting’s outfit rather than the trousers she’d worn on their trip. “Our dear quack has done his exam, and now the ladies-in-waiting would like theirs!” In other words, Jinshi was summoning Maomao. Chue offered her pretext without batting an eye.

It’s been ten days...

Maomao wondered how Jinshi’s injury was doing. It should have been fine without her, as long as he wasn’t scratching.

“He’s very interested in how things went at the farming village,” Chue said.

“I would have assumed you’d already filled him in,” said Maomao. Between Chue and Basen, surely there wasn’t much she could add.

“Ah, but the Moon Prince likes to get all kinds of perspectives. Different standpoints bring different viewpoints!”

“I suppose you’re not wrong...”

It was a good philosophy, but in that case, Maomao thought he would be better off summoning Lahan’s Brother. Then again, unlike the rest of them, Maomao suspected Jinshi wouldn’t be able to tolerate him.

They’d probably have a whole conversation and never get anything said.

Anyway, if this was a direct order, then Maomao had no choice but to go. Looked like she was going to have to change her clothes again.

Chue bounced ahead of Maomao with a lamp, the light bobbing along with her, illuminating the space around them at weird angles.

“Creepy place, huh! Nothing like a big, old mansion in the middle of the night!”

“Too true...” Maomao thought back to her days in the rear palace, to the spooky stories and the consort who’d danced upon the outer wall. She’d found herself going out at night quite a bit, as a matter of fact.

“You know, they say there’s an apparition in this house,” Chue said, holding the lantern in front of her face.

“An apparition? Oh,” was all Maomao said.

Chue poked out her lower lip. “Aww, aren’t you even a little scared, Miss Maomao?”

“I’ve heard a lot of those kinds of stories.” No point being scared now. Chue, though, still looked like Maomao had spoiled her fun. So Maomao said, “Just for my reference, what kind of apparitions are they?”

“Ooh! Would you like to know? Would you like to know, Miss Maomao?” Chue’s eyes began to shine. “It shows up right here, it’s said!”

“
What
 shows up?”

“A flying head!”

“Huh?”

That made no sense. A head was, you know, a head. They didn’t fly.

“There’s a 
feitouman
 around here!”

A feitouman—okay, yes, Maomao had heard of those. They were a kind of supernatural monster said to look like a head that flew around of its own accord.

“Aw, Miss Maomao. You don’t look like you believe me.”

“That’s because I don’t think there’s any feitouman around here. You were kind of hoping though, weren’t you, Miss Chue?”

They soon arrived safely at Jinshi’s chambers with no monsters in sight.

“Boo. Boring,” Chue said.

“I know, I know. Let’s do what we came here for.”

They bowed to the door guard, whose name Maomao didn’t know, and entered the room. By this point, the sumptuousness of the accommodations could be taken as given. Suiren and Gaoshun were inside.

“Good evening,” Maomao said with another bow. She looked around the room. 
Kind of lonely in here
, she thought. Not many people around. She assumed Jinshi was within, but she didn’t see Taomei or Basen. Baryou might have been there or he might not. Chue was nudging a nearby curtain, so maybe he was over there.

“Taomei is busy giving Basen a talking to,” Suiren said, answering Maomao’s question as she prepared tea.

I didn’t even ask!
 The old lady-in-waiting was just that sharp. She knew exactly what Maomao was thinking. 
I don’t think he noticeably screwed up at the village, though.

If anything, she thought Basen seemed more mature than he had been before. He seemed to have developed a bit of a nervous streak, but she assumed he had a lot on his plate.

“Cute or not, he just can’t have a duck in his room,” Suiren added.

The duck? That’s what this is about?

At least she knew what was up now. It looked like Basen hadn’t succeeded in leaving the bird with Lahan’s Brother, who had stayed behind in the farming village to teach them some actual farming.

“Now, Xiaomao, would you be so kind as to take this to the Moon Prince?” asked Suiren, handing her the tray of tea with a bright smile.

“If it’s all right that I do so,” she said. Gaoshun nodded, indicating no problem. Jinshi’s put-upon attendant clutched a single white feather in his hand. Gaoshun always did like adorable things. The duck must have had a restorative effect on him.

All of the people in the room at that moment knew, basically, what was going on with Jinshi—except for the lackadaisical Chue. She was on her best behavior at the moment, presumably because Suiren was there.

“Very well, then.” Maomao turned toward the inner chamber. When she opened the door, the air carried a bracing smell of incense that tickled her nostrils. Jinshi often preferred sandalwood, but today he was using aloeswood.

I’m sure he’s got the best stuff money can buy. 
Aloeswood had medicinal properties and Maomao would have loved to get her hands on some, but the incense Jinshi was using was probably dizzyingly expensive. She couldn’t just beg him to share a bit of it.

“Is that you, Maomao?” Jinshi was bent over his desk, writing something. He was surrounded by papers.

“Yes, sir.” Maomao set the tray on the table and poured the tea. Suiren had used boiling water, so by the time Maomao got settled it was perfectly steeped. She poured two cups equally full and took one for herself. “If I may.”

She took a sip. She didn’t actually think Suiren would have prepared poisoned tea, but protocol was protocol. She discovered a richly fermented black tea that not only wet the throat but promoted blood flow.

“Here you are.”

“Thanks.” Jinshi put down his brush and gave a great stretch.

“How has your health been, sir?”

“Cutting right to the chase, are we? Ah, well, that’s all right. You can tell me about the trip while you do your exam.”

Jinshi shrugged out of the top of his robe. Maomao felt like he used to be a little slower to do that, but having been subjected to so many exams by now, he no longer hesitated. She couldn’t afford to stand on ceremony either, so she summarily removed his bandage.

“I see you’ve gotten good at changing the dressings,” she said.

“Well, do something every day...”

A perfect crimson flower bloomed on Jinshi’s flank. New skin was forming over the burn, turning it a bright red, like a rose or a peony. Maomao might even have admired the beauty of it, if she hadn’t known that it was politically motivated.