I’d say it’s just about better.
 The scar would likely never heal completely—it would fade from red to pink, but probably not much more than that. 
Man. I wish I could take some skin from his butt and stick it on this thing.
 She spared a glance at Jinshi’s haunches.

“You know, I can’t help thinking you seem to look as much at my back as my front during our exams lately,” Jinshi said.

“It’s your imagination, sir.”

Maomao put fresh salve on Jinshi’s side, less to treat the burn than to keep the skin from drying out. Eventually she planned to start adding some herbs that would remove blemishes.

“There, all done.”

She applied a fresh bandage, and that was the extent of Jinshi’s treatment. It was over so quickly that the tea was still steaming. Maomao helped herself to a sip.

“It does go so much quicker when you do it,” Jinshi said. He pulled his robe back on and drank down the tea on the table. When Maomao moved to pour him a second cup, he gestured for her not to bother. Instead he took a book from the desk and sat down on his bed.

“You seem very busy,” she observed.

“Mostly because I’m still figuring out what I’m doing here. A new land means much to learn.” So it was study rather than work that kept him occupied. “Give me your report,” he said. Apparently he meant to listen while he read his book. A necessary evil for the time-starved.

“How much detail do you want, sir?”

“I want every opinion and observation you can give me. Don’t skimp on the details just because I’ve heard from Basen and Chue already.”

“Yes, sir. In that case, I—”

Jinshi interrupted her, patting the bed beside him.

Maomao didn’t say anything.

“It would be tiring for you to stand there the whole time we’re talking. Have a seat.”

“Certainly. I’ll go get a chair...”

She was about to do just that, but Jinshi grabbed her wrist. He was giving her his bring-the-country-to-its-knees smile. “
Have a seat
.” Just when she’d thought he was behaving himself today.

Maomao was left with little choice but to sit down beside Jinshi. There, she began to relate the story of their visit to the village. Telling someone else about it gave her a chance to organize things in her own mind. She described how the bandits had attacked them on the road. She talked about the farmers who showed no particular desire to work. Explained the Windreader tribe and the serfs.

She even mentioned the Yi clan.

Jinshi seemed to be mentally comparing what she said with what he had heard from the other two. Often he nodded; sometimes he would give a tilt of his head, as if something seemed off to him.

“I think that’s all I can tell you, sir. Do you have any questions?”

“Mm. I think the thing that bothers me most would be the Windreader tribe.”

“I know what you mean. A tribe of ritual celebrants who wander the plains, controlling birds and plowing the earth?”

“Controlling birds...” Jinshi seemed fixated on the same thing that had gotten Maomao’s attention.

“Are we very sure the birds in question aren’t ducks, sir?” Maomao asked.

“Yes. I feel a bit bad, doing that to Basen...”

Basen was currently in his mother Taomei’s bad books on account of that duck. As it was Jinshi who had originally ordered him to raise the animals, he felt a certain measure of guilt. Moreover, it seemed he’d instructed Taomei to nudge her son now and again to get him to keep his distance during Jinshi’s examinations. Everyone was concerned that if Basen, not the most subtle of men, were to find out about the brand, he might not be able to keep the secret.

“What kind of bird do you think they used?” asked Jinshi. Basen had been convinced it must be ducks, but Maomao had another idea.

“Perhaps pigeons,” she said.

Maomao had been in the western capital before, a year ago. On that trip, former consort Lishu had been attacked, and the means of coordinating that attack had been messenger pigeons.

That’s how the White Lady did it.

She couldn’t help wondering if there was some connection.

“Yes, pigeons. I had the same thought.” Jinshi got up from the bed and disappeared behind a partitioning screen, from which he emerged carrying a birdcage with a bird sleeping inside.

“You have a pigeon right here,” Maomao observed.

“So I do. I’ve started using them for simple communications.”

Jinshi looked older than his twenty-one years, but he was still young enough to be adaptable in his thinking; he took in new things quickly.

“It’s been twenty days or so since we got here, and I’ve done nothing but attend banquets and make official greetings. But that’s provided opportunities to gather intelligence.”

Jinshi began to fill Maomao in on what he’d been up to while she was away. The bird was soundly asleep, ignoring the millet in its food bowl.

Jinshi told her about all his dinners with the western capital’s upper crust, how he had been shown every important site in the area, and even how some VIP had occasionally approached him on behalf of their daughter or a relative.

“We just missed Sir Gyoku-ou’s daughter—she was leaving for the capital when our party arrived,” he said.

“Ahh, yes.”

“He asked if I wanted her for my wife, but he pretended to be joking.”

“Of course, sir.”

Maomao studiously kept any emotion out of her voice. Jinshi responded by tugging on her cheeks.

“I meab, moth brazen, thir.”

“I agree.” He let go, and Maomao rubbed her cheeks.

“What do you mean to do?” she asked.

“I started by sending a letter to Empress Gyokuyou immediately. I have her response here.”

“Already, sir? I thought the round trip took at least a month.”

Jinshi took out a letter and showed it to her. It was in a pretty sad state for a missive from the Empress.

“You used a pigeon,” Maomao said.

“Only one way.”

It seemed Jinshi was willing to let her read the letter, so Maomao took a peek. “She says to let her handle things with her niece.”

That was the gist of it, anyway. If Gyoku-ou was indeed Empress Gyokuyou’s half-brother, then his daughter would be her niece.

What is she planning to do, I wonder...

The Empress didn’t exactly seem to be on the best of terms with her half-brother. She had her own designs, Maomao was sure. Meanwhile, Maomao and the others had to confront the problem that was in front of them.

“If the Windreaders were using pigeons, it would lend credence to that man Nianzhen’s story,” Jinshi said.

“You think the Windreaders were able to share information on the plains?”

“They would have to be. Insect plagues are like fires—the problem is getting to them the moment they start.”

Jinshi tossed Maomao the book he’d been reading—and she discovered it wasn’t text, but contained columns of numbers. Records of some sort.

“These are the plagues that have occurred over the last several decades. Lahan would have the numbers figured out in an instant, but it’s been harder for me.”

The records gave locations, followed by numbers relating to the swarms. It was enough to give anyone who wasn’t a specialist a headache.

“You think there’s some kind of pattern, sir? Something insidious?”

“I couldn’t be sure from the harvest records alone, but thanks to your inspection, I know now. I-sei Province is falsely reporting inflated harvest numbers.”

“Inflated? I don’t understand. Why would they do that?”

Normally, higher numbers would only mean higher taxes. If they’d been underreporting their harvests—that, she would have understood.

“I don’t know yet. But if natural disasters are occurring in places not mentioned in the records, then all these pages are useless.” Jinshi shook his head, hopeless. “The only way to know for sure is to go see it for yourself. Not just the village you visited; others too.”

It wasn’t easy for the Imperial younger brother, however. Though he was still within his own borders, in this far land he was less powerful than at home, and there were fewer people at his disposal.

“Anything else jump out at you?” he asked.

“Maybe one thing...”

“Yes? What?”

“There aren’t very many medicinal herbs around here, sir.” She looked straight at Jinshi, even allowing some of her annoyance to show on her face. “I’d like an encyclopedia of local plants. There will be a limit to how many medicines I can make using only what we’ve brought from home.”

The easiest thing would be for Maomao to go to a bookstore herself, but it didn’t look like she would have the chance. Surely she wouldn’t get in trouble for asking him to take care of a little errand.

“Very well. Any other questions?”

“May I ask something of a personal nature?”

“Go ahead.”

“Who 
were
 the Yi clan?”

This was pure curiosity on Maomao’s part. She knew the Yi had been annihilated seventeen years before on the orders of the empress regnant, but she didn’t know what they had done.

“The Yi clan... Hmm,” Jinshi muttered.

“What is it, sir? Is it something you can’t talk about?”

“It’s not so much that. I’m just not sure myself. I know that they served the throne alongside the Shi clan since the days of the Mother Royal. And I’ve heard that they followed a system of matrilineal descent.”

The “Mother Royal,” Wang Mu, was the woman who had founded Li, according to legend. She was sometimes said to be the mother of the first emperor.

“Matrilineal, sir?”

Maomao was surprised. Patriarchalism tended to be the order of the day in Li, and she would have expected that tendency to be even stronger in I-sei Province, which was home to so many nomadic tribes.

“Yes, that’s right. An informant revealed the Yi’s treachery, and so they were destroyed. One theory has it that they had unduly influenced the Imperial family...but Gaoshun tells me even he doesn’t know for sure.”

“Even Master Gaoshun doesn’t know?”

“No. I tried looking into records from that era, but they’re so compressed and superficial that there was no point.”

That seemed strange. Sloppy, even. Jinshi’s refusal to be definite might have suggested how much rumor and hearsay there was in what he was telling her.

“I see, sir.” She cleaned up the salve and gathered the used bandages.

“You’re going already?” Jinshi clenched his fists and looked at her like a sad puppy.

“Yes, sir. I’ve come almost straight from my trip, myself, and I’m very tired. I wish you would let me get some sleep.”

“In that case...” Jinshi started, but then he shook his head.

“What is it, sir?”

Maomao had a very good guess what it was, but she pretended not to know.

“No, better not. After a major violation of the rules, even a small transgression is looked upon harshly.”

A violation of the rules, huh?
 Maomao looked at Jinshi’s side. 
Maybe I’m not being very fair.

Jinshi was a man who could have had anything and everything he desired. And yet, he was such a straight shooter that it caused him to beat around the bush like this. He didn’t want to take the shortest route to what he wanted, but the one that would be best for the other person.

Too bad that doesn’t exist here.

So it was that Maomao pretended not to know, even though she did. Not fair of her at all.

“In that case, I’ll be going, sir.”

She tried to make herself smile a little, to take the edge off her unfairness.

Jinshi’s arm was still outstretched, but he didn’t get off the bed.

Chue walked Maomao back to her room. She didn’t tell any ghost stories this time; instead, she complained about the stern talking-to that Suiren had given her while Maomao was busy with Jinshi.

“Phew! Who 
cleans
 in the middle of the night? No one, that’s who! What do you think, Miss Maomao?”

Chue, Maomao found out, had been forced to polish the floor.

Sorry, Miss Chue...

It had probably been a convenient way of preventing Chue from bursting into Jinshi’s room. Suiren was, as ever, Jinshi’s ally.

Chue was respectful enough not to ask any questions about what had gone on while Maomao and Jinshi had been alone together, so apparently she knew something about where the line was for a lady-in-waiting. Even if the way she looked and acted suggested exactly the opposite.

“Once I drop you off, Miss Maomao, I’ll be going back to my room. Hanky-panky with my husband can wait for another day.”

“Miss Chue, we don’t share the intimate details of our conjugal lives with other people.”

“But this stuff isn’t anything new to you, is it?”

“It’s not; that’s true.”

Maomao had had to stand guard during the Emperor and Empress’s “hanky-panky,” not to mention everything the ladies of the pleasure district got up to with their customers. Frankly, she was more accustomed to human hanky-panky than insect copulation.

“Then why worry about—” Chue and Maomao were just turning the corner of the hallway when what looked like a white mask darted in front of them.

“Wha?!”

Maomao’s brain didn’t process it at first. It looked like a floating, grinning face.

“Miss Maomao?” asked Chue, who had been turned toward her. She quickly realized something was amiss and spun around, bringing the lamp to bear. Then she set off running after the white mask, with Maomao close behind.

When Maomao caught up with Chue, she was dangling from the branches of the big tree in the central courtyard. “I’m real sorry! I lost track of it!” she drawled. Then she hopped down, her hair full of leaves. “Wow! Who knew they really had ghosts here?” She looked downright intrigued. “So that’s a feitouman.”

Maomao had certainly never expected to witness one herself, but based on all the descriptions, that was certainly what they seemed to have on their hands. A genuine flying head.