“These are the plagues that have occurred over the last several decades. Lahan would have the numbers figured out in an instant, but it’s been harder for me.”

The records gave locations, followed by numbers relating to the swarms. It was enough to give anyone who wasn’t a specialist a headache.

“You think there’s some kind of pattern, sir? Something insidious?”

“I couldn’t be sure from the harvest records alone, but thanks to your inspection, I know now. I-sei Province is falsely reporting inflated harvest numbers.”

“Inflated? I don’t understand. Why would they do that?”

Normally, higher numbers would only mean higher taxes. If they’d been underreporting their harvests—that, she would have understood.

“I don’t know yet. But if natural disasters are occurring in places not mentioned in the records, then all these pages are useless.” Jinshi shook his head, hopeless. “The only way to know for sure is to go see it for yourself. Not just the village you visited; others too.”

It wasn’t easy for the Imperial younger brother, however. Though he was still within his own borders, in this far land he was less powerful than at home, and there were fewer people at his disposal.

“Anything else jump out at you?” he asked.

“Maybe one thing...”

“Yes? What?”

“There aren’t very many medicinal herbs around here, sir.” She looked straight at Jinshi, even allowing some of her annoyance to show on her face. “I’d like an encyclopedia of local plants. There will be a limit to how many medicines I can make using only what we’ve brought from home.”

The easiest thing would be for Maomao to go to a bookstore herself, but it didn’t look like she would have the chance. Surely she wouldn’t get in trouble for asking him to take care of a little errand.

“Very well. Any other questions?”

“May I ask something of a personal nature?”

“Go ahead.”

“Who 
were
 the Yi clan?”

This was pure curiosity on Maomao’s part. She knew the Yi had been annihilated seventeen years before on the orders of the empress regnant, but she didn’t know what they had done.

“The Yi clan... Hmm,” Jinshi muttered.

“What is it, sir? Is it something you can’t talk about?”

“It’s not so much that. I’m just not sure myself. I know that they served the throne alongside the Shi clan since the days of the Mother Royal. And I’ve heard that they followed a system of matrilineal descent.”

The “Mother Royal,” Wang Mu, was the woman who had founded Li, according to legend. She was sometimes said to be the mother of the first emperor.

“Matrilineal, sir?”

Maomao was surprised. Patriarchalism tended to be the order of the day in Li, and she would have expected that tendency to be even stronger in I-sei Province, which was home to so many nomadic tribes.

“Yes, that’s right. An informant revealed the Yi’s treachery, and so they were destroyed. One theory has it that they had unduly influenced the Imperial family...but Gaoshun tells me even he doesn’t know for sure.”

“Even Master Gaoshun doesn’t know?”

“No. I tried looking into records from that era, but they’re so compressed and superficial that there was no point.”

That seemed strange. Sloppy, even. Jinshi’s refusal to be definite might have suggested how much rumor and hearsay there was in what he was telling her.

“I see, sir.” She cleaned up the salve and gathered the used bandages.

“You’re going already?” Jinshi clenched his fists and looked at her like a sad puppy.

“Yes, sir. I’ve come almost straight from my trip, myself, and I’m very tired. I wish you would let me get some sleep.”

“In that case...” Jinshi started, but then he shook his head.

“What is it, sir?”

Maomao had a very good guess what it was, but she pretended not to know.

“No, better not. After a major violation of the rules, even a small transgression is looked upon harshly.”

A violation of the rules, huh?
 Maomao looked at Jinshi’s side. 
Maybe I’m not being very fair.

Jinshi was a man who could have had anything and everything he desired. And yet, he was such a straight shooter that it caused him to beat around the bush like this. He didn’t want to take the shortest route to what he wanted, but the one that would be best for the other person.

Too bad that doesn’t exist here.

So it was that Maomao pretended not to know, even though she did. Not fair of her at all.

“In that case, I’ll be going, sir.”

She tried to make herself smile a little, to take the edge off her unfairness.

Jinshi’s arm was still outstretched, but he didn’t get off the bed.

Chue walked Maomao back to her room. She didn’t tell any ghost stories this time; instead, she complained about the stern talking-to that Suiren had given her while Maomao was busy with Jinshi.

“Phew! Who 
cleans
 in the middle of the night? No one, that’s who! What do you think, Miss Maomao?”

Chue, Maomao found out, had been forced to polish the floor.

Sorry, Miss Chue...

It had probably been a convenient way of preventing Chue from bursting into Jinshi’s room. Suiren was, as ever, Jinshi’s ally.

Chue was respectful enough not to ask any questions about what had gone on while Maomao and Jinshi had been alone together, so apparently she knew something about where the line was for a lady-in-waiting. Even if the way she looked and acted suggested exactly the opposite.

“Once I drop you off, Miss Maomao, I’ll be going back to my room. Hanky-panky with my husband can wait for another day.”

“Miss Chue, we don’t share the intimate details of our conjugal lives with other people.”

“But this stuff isn’t anything new to you, is it?”

“It’s not; that’s true.”

Maomao had had to stand guard during the Emperor and Empress’s “hanky-panky,” not to mention everything the ladies of the pleasure district got up to with their customers. Frankly, she was more accustomed to human hanky-panky than insect copulation.

“Then why worry about—” Chue and Maomao were just turning the corner of the hallway when what looked like a white mask darted in front of them.

“Wha?!”

Maomao’s brain didn’t process it at first. It looked like a floating, grinning face.

“Miss Maomao?” asked Chue, who had been turned toward her. She quickly realized something was amiss and spun around, bringing the lamp to bear. Then she set off running after the white mask, with Maomao close behind.

When Maomao caught up with Chue, she was dangling from the branches of the big tree in the central courtyard. “I’m real sorry! I lost track of it!” she drawled. Then she hopped down, her hair full of leaves. “Wow! Who knew they really had ghosts here?” She looked downright intrigued. “So that’s a feitouman.”

Maomao had certainly never expected to witness one herself, but based on all the descriptions, that was certainly what they seemed to have on their hands. A genuine flying head.