“Fair enough.” Chue took the chicken and was about to pop it into her own mouth.

“Oh, Miss Chue, raw chicken is dangerous. Cook it first if you’re going to eat it.”

“Oops! My mistake.”

Chue might have been a gourmand with an iron stomach, but even she should probably steer clear of raw pork and chicken.

“I m-mean it... I raised it! I h-hatched the egg myself,” Kulumu said.

“Is that so? And where did you get the egg? How did you hatch it? And how did the owl escape? Tell us that?” Maomao asked.

Kulumu took another great sniff, then started to talk. “The e-egg, I... I got it from someone. This hunter who was friends with my dad. He said he didn’t need it, but my dad didn’t want to buy it.”

“A hunter?”

“Yeah. He was out hawking, and he found it in this nest, so he brought it back with him. He thought my dad could hatch it and raise it to sell to some rich guy.”

“Ah...”

And this bird had been what emerged.

“How did you hatch the egg, then?”

“D-Dad always keeps the room nice and warm. He uses plenty of fuel, and if it gets too hot, we open the window, and about five times a day he flips the eggs. I couldn’t use any fuel, though, so I kept it tucked close to me. You know, like the way a mother bird might. It hatched after about five days.”

“Hmm...”

“I’m sure she’s right. Duck eggs are hatched the same way,” Basen volunteered. He ought to know; he’d looked after those ducks for long enough. Maomao was only vaguely familiar with methods of hatching eggs, but it sounded about right.

This time Basen turned to Maomao. “Well? What do you think?”

“I think it sounds plausible. Too detailed to be a story she concocted on the spot.”

“Agreed. Interesting, to find out ducks and owls are hatched the same way.”

Interesting, but, unfortunately for Basen, irrelevant. Why was he so infatuated with ducks these days, anyway?

Yes, it’s all basically plausible...

But something still nagged at her. “So you raised this owl with the intention to sell it?”

“N-No, I didn’t!”

“Thought not.” Maomao plucked a handful of Kulumu’s black outfit. “You were hoping to return it to the wild, weren’t you?”

After a second, Kulumu replied, “Yeah... I even taught it how to catch mice and bugs so it could hunt for itself.”

“But then it was sold out from under you.”

“Yeah! By my stupid dad!” She clenched her fists. “When he saw its unusual face and funny color, he waited until I was out somewhere and he sold it. He never even asked me! I didn’t have a mate for it, so I was gonna let it go back to the woods. That was the whole point of this suffocating costume!”

Kulumu was obviously furious, but it was hardly an unusual story. In Li, the head of the household was generally entitled to do as he wished with the possessions of the women and children.

I guess maybe it would be more surprising if you lived somewhere women were in a stronger position
, Maomao thought. Daughters were commonly treated as tools to be used in political marriages, or as a way to gain a dowry. Selling a girl to the pleasure quarter was, in essence, much the same thing.

“I understand. Perhaps I could ask you a few questions while I get my thoughts in order? These questions are based entirely on my assumptions, so please correct me if I’m wrong.”

“Okay.” Kulumu sniffed and nodded.

“Your father isn’t a falconer himself, but makes his money domesticating hawks and other unusual birds and selling them to wealthy people, is that right?”

Kulumu nodded. “He hunts too. But pets sell for more.”

“And whom did he sell the owl to? Was it the daughter of Master Gyoku-ou, the owner of this house?”

“No! She’s his 
adopted
 daughter. The Nightingale King doesn’t have a real daughter that age.” Kulumu had stopped sniffling; she sounded strikingly clear and forceful.

“The Nightingale King?” Maomao asked. She’d never heard that expression before. Adopted daughters were hardly unusual, anyway. She hadn’t expected that to be the point to make Kulumu bristle.

“It’s the name of the main character in this play. He solves the hardest problems with speed and grace! The story is modeled on some old duke. Someone stuck Gyoku-ou with the nickname ’cause his name means Jade Nightingale.”

Kulumu might have looked young, but Maomao was starting to appreciate that she was a pretty sharp kid, with a highly developed vocabulary for someone her age.

“Master Gyoku-ou certainly seems popular in the western capital.”

“I guess. It helps that he’s the oldest son of Master Gyokuen, who made this city what it is, but he’s real friendly. He’ll even talk to commoners.”

“Is that right?” Maomao found that this man, Gyoku-ou, didn’t quite make sense to her. Right now, though, there were more important questions to ask. “So your owl was sold to Master Gyoku-ou’s daughter, but then it escaped and started living here in this house, right?”

“Pretty much.”

“How did you learn the owl had gotten out?”

“Oh, well, the culprit came to me and apologized.”

“The culprit?” Maomao glanced at Chue. Taomei and Basen looked equally surprised.

“I might not look like much, but I’ve got connections with the Gyoku household. They even taught me to write.”

“Wow! And here you just look like a filthy little kid,” Chue muttered.

“Who’re you callin’ filthy?! I’m a gorgeous woman, just like I said!” Kulumu snapped. Apparently she was over her crying fit.

“I’d be very interested if you could explain. If I may say so, you don’t look like someone whose station would normally allow access to this mansion.” Taomei had put it a different way, but she was essentially saying the same thing as Chue. Gaoshun could only look pleadingly at his wife and daughter-in-law, silently begging them not to be quite so rude.