“I was real close with Gyoku-ou’s mom, Master Gyokuen’s wife. She’s a relative of my dad’s. That’s the way we got into selling birds to rich folk. I actually saw Gyoku-ou’s daughter or whoever when we handed the bird over. I tried to ask her to give it back, but it was like she didn’t know what to do. Guess she can’t just give away something she got from my dad.”

“So it was the daughter who let the bird go,” Maomao suggested. She had to admit she didn’t have the most favorable feelings toward the young woman, who had been sent to the Imperial capital as part of a political ploy, but it wasn’t the girl’s fault. Indeed, she didn’t seem like a bad person as such.

“Couldn’t tell you. All I got was a message: 
It got away. Sorry.
 I knew what they meant was they wanted me to catch it. Like I said. Innocent.”

“I don’t know about that. You gave the residents of this house an awful fright,” said Maomao.

“Grr,” Kulumu growled, sounding like a wild dog.

“I think we’ve got the idea now, Miss Maomao,” said Chue.

“Yes. As far as it goes...”

“But that’s not far enough for you, is it, Miss Maomao? There’s something else you want to ask about.”

Chue was right. Maomao wasn’t primarily interested in why Kulumu had been lurking around the mansion.

“All right. Maybe you can compensate us for the trouble you’ve caused by answering a few questions.”

“Yes, I think that’s a fine idea,” said not Kulumu, but Taomei.

Maomao kept one eye on Taomei as she said, “Your family raises birds. Do you ever use them as a means of communication?”

“Not these days. I guess we used to, back in the day, and we know these people who raise pigeons.”

Maomao crossed her arms thoughtfully. “Did you ever practice falconry, then?”

“Yeah, we did. Dad just gave it up ’cause he thought he’d make more selling stuff to rich people. We used to hunt rabbits, even foxes sometimes. That’s the whole reason he didn’t want this egg—you need falcons or hawks to hunt big enough game to make it worth it. What’s better to have around, right? A pet, or something that can hunt? Pets’re easier to raise, though.”

She was right; an owl would only be able to hunt mice, or small rabbits at best.

“In that case, could you train the birds you raised to hunt only specific animals?”

Kulumu frowned at that. “We never did, but I guess it’s not impossible. Sometimes people feed birds one specific thing from the day they hatch, to influence their diets that way. Or you can give them specific rewards based on what they hunt for you. See, in falconry, when the bird brings a kill back, you trade it for food. They could learn what gets them their favorite treats, and then they might start looking more for those things.”

Yes, Kulumu was a sharp one, all right. Notwithstanding her shrill voice, she was far more grown-up than her contemporary Chou-u.

“That means maybe you could teach birds to target grasshoppers,” Maomao mused.

“Grasshoppers?” Basen said immediately. Whatever he thought was going on, it made him turn toward the duck, whose bill was still peeking through the crack in the door.

“Grasshoppers?” Kulumu echoed. “You’d need a bird that wasn’t very big, like this guy. And they like meat better, so it’d be more practical to teach them to trade grasshoppers for food.”

“I see. One more question, then,” Maomao said. She took in a deep breath, then let the words out all at once. “Are you a member of the Windreader tribe?”

That set Kulumu back on her heels for a moment. “How do you know that name?”

Maomao clenched her fist. “So you know about them!”

Kulumu, the self-proclaimed beautiful woman, crossed her arms and went, “Hrm...” Then she said, “I’m not sure I’d go that far. I’ve heard my great-grandpa used to go by that name back when everyone was still living on the plains. My grandma mentioned it to me a few times, but I wouldn’t say I 
know
 much about them.”

“Would you tell us what you do know?”

“Hmm. I dunno...” Kulumu was very pleased to discover she had something Maomao wanted. “Can’t tell ya for free...” She smirked. She wanted money!

A predatory pair of eyes glinted behind her. “Speaking of 
free
, perhaps you’d prefer to be handed over to the authorities?” Taomei was smiling. For some reason Basen, who wasn’t even involved here, shrank back, and even the owl fluttered its wings and quivered. Gaoshun wore the impassive expression of a monk contemplating Emptiness, while Chue appeared to be pretending to be a tree.

Kulumu grimaced. No wonder even Gaoshun lived in awe of his wife.

Maomao coughed pointedly. “The negotiating is already over. You answer our questions, and we don’t give you to the law. There’s also the matter of certain future treatment...”

“Yes, for example, we’re still considering what will happen to this owl,” Taomei said, picking up the theme.

“Fine, I get it... My grandma told me that way back in the old days, one of the nomadic tribes was attacked, and most of them were killed. She said the women were taken as brides and the kids were sold as slaves.”

That accorded with what Maomao had learned. But something bothered her.

“I heard the Windreaders used birds. Would this mean that their method of hatching and raising those animals didn’t die with them?”

“Sorry, I don’t think I put it quite the right way. The Windreaders were wiped out. At least, that half of them were.”

“Th-
That
 half?” Maomao and the others stared at Kulumu, open-mouthed.

“Yeah, sure. The Windreaders were always wandering the plains, doing some sort of ritual or whatever. So why would they all go everywhere together, in a big clump? It’s better to split up, right? Especially since they could use birds to talk to each other and stuff. Okay, so I don’t know for sure if it was exactly half. Maybe it was a third, even a quarter. My great-grandpa was with one of them.”

“What happened to the rest of them?” Maomao asked. “Everyone treats the Windreaders as if they were gone. And the ritual wasn’t able to continue, was it?”

“Hrm... Gotta say, I don’t really know. My great-grandpa was from the part of the tribe that survived, I guess, but he died when my grandma was about ten. She said he taught her a bunch of stuff about birds, but that by that time they weren’t nomads anymore. He was already living in town. She said they never had to worry about food, though, ’cause he had a regular customer who bought the pigeons he raised.”

“A regular customer?”

“I guess. Probably some VIP from somewhere, she said, but that was all she told me. I don’t think she knew much about it herself.”

Everyone fell absolutely silent.

“Huh? Hey, uh... Did I say something wrong?”

“No,” Maomao said slowly. “No, in fact, thank you very much.” For the first time, she truly appreciated what was meant by “a bolt from the blue.” No, that wasn’t quite true—she’d thought Kulumu might have been somehow tangentially connected to the Windreader tribe, but she had never expected to come so close to the heart of the matter.

“So, can I take my friend here home or what? I’ve found the perfect place to let it go.”

“You’ve finally got it back, and you’re going to release it?” Maomao asked.

“That was always the plan. It’s what my grandma taught me.”

Maomao caught Taomei’s eye. She gave a single nod, and Maomao handed the caged bird to Kulumu, who broke into a big smile.

“Perhaps you’d answer one final question for me?”

“Yeah? What?” Kulumu was in high spirits now that she had her owl back; Maomao could see her front teeth as she spoke.

“You said your father was a relative of Master Gyoku-ou’s mother. Can I assume that his mother was also a member of the Windreader tribe?”

“Couldn’t say for sure about that. She seemed to like birds a lot, though, and definitely knew how to handle them.”

If Gyoku-ou’s mother was a Windreader, a great many pieces of this puzzle would start to fall into place.

This is some valuable information...
 But if Maomao believed what Kulumu had told her, it would also produce several contradictions. 
For example, if the Windreader tribe wasn’t completely annihilated, why didn’t they continue the ritual after the attack?

It would call into question the point of what Nianzhen the serf had been doing.

Then there was the question of why the surviving Windreaders had disappeared.

Yes, a great many questions.

I can think of a possibility.

Suppose someone let people 
think
 the Windreaders had been destroyed, and then put their talents to other uses.

People who could communicate information quickly would have a tactical advantage.

If you could corral a people who had been “wiped out” and keep them in one place, there would be any number of uses for them. It made sense when Maomao thought about Kulumu’s great-grandfather, who had already been living in town. It would also explain his rather untimely demise.

Once the necessary knowledge had been passed along, people who remembered the past would only be a hindrance.

“Hey! Heeey! Miss? Can I go home now?”

Maomao snapped out of her reverie when Kulumu poked her. She must have gotten lost in thought. “Sorry about that. Could you tell us how to contact you? I might be able to introduce you to a client who’d be very interested in your birds.”

“Yikes... Why do you look so scary?”

Apparently Kulumu wasn’t being taken in by Maomao’s attempt at a smile. She was trying to look friendly, but instead her face conveyed: 
I’ll be damned if I let this precious source of information slip through my fingers.

“Ho ho. Don’t worry, we would never mistreat a child. Come, now, won’t you introduce us to your daddy?” Taomei asked, eyes bright. Kulumu twitched, then nodded.

Taomei is too strong
, Maomao thought. She was a masterpiece of a woman, in a way distinct from either Suiren or the madam.

It’s gotten awfully quiet.

Chue was restraining herself, and Basen had adopted his father’s studiously contemplative expression. Maomao wondered if this was how Gaoshun had been fashioned into the man he was today. Presently he stood there, doing what appeared to be his best impression of a wall.

They sent Kulumu home with one of the menservants, then Taomei summoned Maomao.

“Would there happen to be anything you’re still not telling us?” she asked. Her tone was polite, but the message was unmistakable: 
If you know something, spit it out.

“I have my suspicions, ma’am, but they’re nothing more than that. Guesses, full of absurd conjecture. I hesitate even to give voice to them.”

Luomen had taught Maomao that she had to take responsibility for her words. She wasn’t about to draw concrete conclusions on nothing but the strength of unproven assumptions.

“Perhaps, but my—
our
—master isn’t looking for crystal clear conclusions. It’s in his nature to take in everything that he can. Perhaps you could share your thoughts with us in order to help him consider how to prepare for what’s going to happen.” She turned those predator’s eyes on Maomao. 
Out with it!
 they said.

“Very well, ma’am.” She knew Taomei would take whatever she said to “their master,” Jinshi.

“Don’t tell me. I think you should speak to him directly.”

“I really don’t think it would be a problem for us to simply talk here.” She was confident Taomei wouldn’t twist her words when telling Jinshi about them.

“By no means. My husband was just saying that the Moon Prince could use a chance to relax a little.”

“Excuse me?”

Taomei’s smile was almost mischievous. Maomao glowered at her, but she could do no more than that.