Jinshi seemed to agree with her; he was nodding along and sipping his tea. Maomao took a drink herself; her throat was parched.

“So the Yi are involved, and Shaoh. Is that all?” Jinshi asked.

“No—there’s one more group.” Kulumu had said something else that had gotten Maomao’s attention. “Kulumu said something that implied that Master Gyokuen’s wife, Master Gyoku-ou’s mother, was of Windreader origin herself.”

Jinshi didn’t mince words. “That’s right.”

So he’s already looked into it.

Why even bother asking about her speculation, then? Behind Jinshi, Chue held up two fingers and grinned. She must have been the one to get the info.

“It seems Sir Gyokuen’s wife played a substantial role in helping his business prosper. Information is as good as gold in business dealings, after all. For him to have amassed as many resources as he has over the course of these several decades, he must possess a power others don’t.”

And now his grandchild stood next in line for the Imperial throne. If Gyokuen was a self-made man, he had made himself better than any other man in the nation.

“No one has a bad word to say about this wife of his. They all say she was intelligent and warm.” That made sense; Kulumu had said she was kind as well. Funny, considering she had something of a shady son.

That was about as far as Maomao needed to delve into this, in her own opinion—but there was one other thing she had to ask. “May I bring up something slightly off the subject of the Windreader tribe?”

“What is it?”

“It’s about the farming village we visited. Master Rikuson was there just before we were.”

“Ah, that.” Jinshi looked away from her for a moment, apparently thinking. “I had Rikuson investigated as well. I know he went to inspect the local agriculture. Even though it seems to have been quite difficult for him—he’s been very busy here in the western capital. The visit, though, was about confirming something we’d suspected since his days in the central region.”

“All the way back then, sir?”

“Yes. The reports from I-sei Province didn’t show any major damage to the harvest last year, but it was hard to be sure without seeing for ourselves. So Rikuson found the problem on his desk. Or rather, I put it there.”

“You did, sir?”

“You doubt me?”

“Not exactly. Just curious.”

Rikuson hadn’t been looking his best when they had first arrived at the western capital. It was hard for Maomao not to wonder what he’d been up to. Maybe she was just paranoid?

“Allow Miss Chue to explain why he wasn’t looking his best!” Chue said, stepping forward with an enthusiastic snort. Apparently “Miss Chue” served as her first-person pronoun even in Jinshi’s presence.

“Chue,” said Taomei, a bird of prey eying a presumptuous sparrow.

Geez, Taomei is scary...

“It’s all right. Let her speak,” said Jinshi.

With his permission safely gained, Chue let out a big breath. “Miss Chue already looked into it. On his way home from the village, Mister Rikuson was set upon by bandits! You know the ones, Miss Maomao. Those poor guys who got their arms broken by Mister Basen.”

“Yes, I remember, thank you.”

I remember that “Miss Chue” used me as bait!

“Of course you do. Well, you also remember that the bandits who attacked Miss Chue and her friends were arrested and taken to prison. Later, the bandits’ leaders were apprehended too—one of our informants kindly told us what we wanted to know. We also learned that one of our guides had taken Mister Rikuson to the farming village a few days earlier.”

So, in sum, the guide passed information about his clients to the bandits, who attacked people unused to traveling the plains. The same guide had been responsible for the attacks on both Maomao and Rikuson. Chue, anticipating the bandit connection, had put on a little show for him.

“It really was complete coincidence that Miss Chue and her friends were attacked—”

Hey, don’t lie to us!

Maomao had to pinch her lips tight together to make sure this rejoinder didn’t come out of her mouth.

“—but in Mister Rikuson’s case, it seems there was someone besides the guide pulling the strings.”

“Someone who wanted to interfere with his visit to the village?” Jinshi asked.

“It’s possible. Or it might just have been regular old intimidation. The other possibility Miss Chue can think of is that it goes the other way, and Mister Rikuson 
wanted
 to look like a victim. Then again, of course, maybe it really was just a regular bandit attack. If you’d prefer.”

Chue had a surprising talent for drawing lines by implication. She spoke only of facts, without mixing in her own opinion.

Even if she does use me as bait.

Did Maomao bear her a grudge for that? Maybe a little one.

“Understood,” Jinshi said, and gestured to Chue to step back. She straightened up and gave him a perfect bow.

From what I’ve just seen, it almost looks like...

It almost looked like Jinshi himself wasn’t completely sure who Rikuson really was. Everything Maomao had heard, though, made her think he was at least a man loyal to his work.

Jinshi took a sip of his tea, contemplating all he’d just heard. Maomao likewise took a drink, although her tea was cold by now.

This tea’s flavor should make me want something sweet, but...
 What she really wanted was something salty. No sooner had the thought crossed her mind than a tray of snacks appeared in front of her, delivered by Suiren, who caught Maomao’s eye as she set it down. It bore a pile of plain rice crackers.

“Join me,” Jinshi said, picking up one of the crackers. “It wouldn’t be seemly for me to eat all these by myself.”

“If you don’t mind, then,” Maomao said, one of the crackers practically already in her mouth. There was a noisy crunch as she bit into it. It didn’t seem like particularly fine etiquette, but the salty cracker was so good.

I’ll be able to take some of these with me, right?
 she thought. Some cookies to take as souvenirs for the quack doctor would be nice too. 
Ahh, but then there’s Tianyu to worry about.

She could throw the quack off the scent easily, but pulling the wool over Tianyu’s eyes would be harder. Better make sure first.

“Moon Prince. May I ask you a question?”

“Yes? What is it?” Jinshi raised an eyebrow. She had used the name “Moon Prince” because Taomei and the others were there, but he didn’t seem to like it much.

“What shall I do about my position when it comes to one of the new physicians, Tianyu? Unlike the qu—I mean, the master physician, if I come here too often, it will be difficult to keep him from connecting the dots.”

“That’s a good point. Let’s see,” Jinshi said, but then he paused.

It was Suiren who continued, with a smile. “He’s been informed that you’ve known the Moon Prince for some time, since you were training in etiquette in his chambers. Put your mind at ease.”

“Training in etiquette?”

“Yes. It’s not untrue as such.”

“I suppose not...”

The description, frankly, made Maomao feel a little ill. To “train in etiquette” by serving a man of elegance typically meant to prepare to be his wife.

“It’s not untrue,” Suiren reiterated, still smiling.

Maomao took another bite of rice cracker, feeling not the least bit reassured by Suiren’s explanation.

Jinshi appeared to be thinking about something as he ate. “Perhaps we should proceed faster,” he mused.

Inquiring about 
what
 he felt should be hastened seemed likely to invite a very long conversation, so Maomao decided not to ask.