Chapter 14: The Past and the Possible

The beautiful room was suffused with the rich aroma of tea. The tea, which was served (
ploop-ploop-ploop
) out of a foreign-style teapot, was red as a rose. This was dark tea in the most literal sense, Maomao observed as she savored the smell. People sometimes took this kind of tea with sugar or cow’s milk, but Maomao declined them—she couldn’t abide sweetened tea.

“So, what’s your take on the matter?” asked Jinshi, who managed to look elegant just stirring some milk into his drink with a spoon. That was the right way to do it to avoid making himself sick to his stomach. Suiren had heated the milk to make it easier on his digestive system.

Maomao sat across the table from him and sipped her own tea. 
Are we sure about this? Is this the right setting for this conversation?

Taomei had led Maomao directly to Jinshi’s chambers, but no matter how you sliced it, she found herself at a tea party. Suiren didn’t appear to object, meaning they had her tacit approval, but Maomao couldn’t help wondering.

“Here, for you,” the old lady had said with a smile as she pushed tea toward Maomao. She’d felt she couldn’t refuse, so decided to enjoy just a sip while she spoke with Jinshi.

“I must warn you, sir, my opinion—”

“—is merely speculation, and might not fully accord with the true facts. Yes, yes. I assure you, I’ll take an objective view of things and not accept all you say uncritically. Does that make you feel better?”

“Yes, sir,” Maomao said. It was all she 
could
 say. Jinshi glanced at Taomei. Was his diligently official tone in deference to her presence? “Where would you like me to start?”

“With the Windreader tribe. Put it all together for me, even the things I’ve heard before.”

“Very well, sir.” That at least made things easier—she would be spared the effort of trying not to repeat herself. “We first heard about the Windreaders from Nianzhen, the former serf at the farming village we visited. He said the tribe had been destroyed in an attack meant to gain his people wives and slaves. The Windreader tribe was responsible for a ritual of some kind and, according to Nianzhen, was under the protection of the Yi clan.”

This much she had already told Jinshi, so he continued to sip his tea and munch on a snack as he listened. The snack, incidentally, was a foreign-style cookie well matched to the exotic tea.

“We can speculate that whatever the ritual was, it somehow helped stop plagues of insects before they happened. It might have been a practice called fall plowing, which involves turning over the earth to not only improve soil quality, but destroy the eggs of pest insects. I think Lahan’s older brother would know the specifics.”

“You mean Lahan’s Brother. The La clan is full of highly accomplished individuals, isn’t it? To think, they have two virtually professional farmers.”

So it had come to this: even Jinshi called him Lahan’s Brother.

I get the impression Lahan’s Brother learned farming under duress, though.

With his distinctive diligent streak, she knew he must have dedicated himself to learning the ways of the soil. If he’d been born into an ordinary family, he might have become a more ordinary overachiever.

“Where is Lahan’s Brother?” Jinshi asked.

“We received a message that he should be returning to the western capital tomorrow. He’s mostly finished teaching the villagers how to farm,” Basen reported.

Oh, yeah. We left him there, didn’t we?
 Maomao thought. She wondered if he’d been successful in teaching them how to cultivate potatoes.

“When he gets back, tell him to come talk to me.”

“Yes, sir.”

Basen withdrew. There was a stray duck feather on his back.

Maomao looked at Jinshi to see if it was okay to continue.

“Go ahead,” he said.

“Yes, sir. The Windreader tribe used birds in some capacity, but the former serf didn’t know exactly how. The suspicious character we caught today—Kulumu—however, claims that the Windreaders were not wiped out, and that they passed on the secret of their birds, which is how their descendants now make their living. As you suspected, they appear to raise messenger pigeons. They might also have raised other kinds of birds.”

Kulumu had seemed to believe that the knack for raising birds was primarily about cultivating pets to sell to rich people, but that wasn’t true.

“Depending on how the birds are raised, I believe they could be used to help find insects. But I do think that messenger birds are the clan’s stock-in-trade.”

This was simply the answer Jinshi had already arrived at.

“I think the Windreaders’ greatest strength was their ability to use birds to communicate. Although I must emphasize that this is only my guess, I wouldn’t be surprised if they were serving as an information network.”

Jinshi didn’t so much as flinch. “What of the tribe’s survivors, then?”

“Again, this is only speculation—but I think they might have been protected by those who saw value in their abilities.” Maomao spoke slowly, choosing her words carefully.

“And who do you think protected them?”

After a moment she said, “I’m not sure. The Yi clan, perhaps, or maybe some other power.”

“Why would the Yi do that?”

Maomao knew as well as Jinshi that her answer created some inconsistencies. If the Yi had been seriously protecting the Windreaders, the tragedy of fifty years before would never have occurred.

“I make bold to refer to the former emperor’s mother, the empress regnant, sir.”

“You have my permission.”

“It’s because she destroyed the Yi clan.”

“Hmm.”

Maomao could see that it made sense to Jinshi. The empress regnant had ruled the country by proxy, controlling her son like a marionette. She seemed to have been a thoughtful and logical person; there had been obvious reasons for her to expand the rear palace and forbid logging in the forests. But when it came to the annihilation of the Yi clan, there was much that remained unclear.

“You’re suggesting that the Yi clan tried to keep the Windreaders to themselves, not letting the Imperial family know about them, and when it transpired that they were in effect a private spy network, the clan was punished for it.”

“I think it’s a possibility, sir.”

It was only Maomao’s hypothesis. She offered it to Jinshi merely as something to consider in making his judgments.

“Understood. What about the possibility that someone other than the Yi clan was harboring this tribe, then?”

“I remembered that the White Lady used pigeons to communicate. She might have learned to do that in Shaoh—and it’s not impossible that it reached her, or Shaoh, from the Windreaders.”

“So the Windreaders’ art found a home in Shaoh. Which leaves us with the question, did it get there before the tribe was destroyed, or after?”

Now, that wasn’t a very nice question.

“In my view, it would have to have been before their destruction,” Maomao said.

“So it was treachery?”

“Yes, sir. They committed subterfuge.”

Maomao thought once more about the reason the Windreaders had been destroyed. The tribe had been priests of some kind, yes, but suppose they had also been spies serving the Yi clan. If the Windreaders had betrayed their masters, then it would make sense that the Yi would choose to simply stand by as another tribe massacred them.

Then they collected the last of the Windreaders in the cities, where they could keep an eye on them, and made sure their arts were passed down to the next generation—then eliminated them.

Kulumu’s responses had put the idea in Maomao’s head and she couldn’t get it out again. It would be easy to justify moving the Windreaders into town: the Yi simply wanted to protect them. When, in fact, they wanted to keep them close.