Maomao caught the scent of grass on the breeze as she let the rattling carriage carry her along.

“The weather should be clear for a while yet. Outside of the rainy season, I-sei Province doesn’t get any precipitation worth mentioning,” said Rikuson, who sat in the seat across from them. He wore an outfit that would be easy to move in, appropriate for visiting a farming village.

“Sounds perfect for a wheat harvest,” Chue said. If rain fell during the harvest, the wheat could start to sprout, which would make it lower quality. And if it couldn’t be properly dried, it might simply rot.

“It is. The weather can be fickle, though. I’ve even heard of hailstorms occurring around harvesttime.”

“Hail can be awfully difficult to predict, can’t it?” Maomao said. She was no farming expert; such sympathetic but innocuous interjections were the most she could hope to offer. If Lahan’s Brother had been here, he would probably have been clenching his fist and expounding on the manifold labors of the harvest season.

Maomao glanced toward the driver’s bench: Basen was holding the reins. Lihaku would have been just as good for a guard, but since Basen had accompanied them last time, he did so again now. His duck was there too. She was practically their mascot at this point.

Maomao looked at Rikuson. “What caused you to want to survey the farming villages, Rikuson?” she asked. This was the question she’d wanted to address to him personally. She suspected Jinshi had already given her the answer indirectly, but she wanted to hear it from Rikuson’s own mouth.

Rikuson glanced around, with what seemed to Maomao a particularly long look at his subordinates following behind the carriage. Then he said, “There are several reasons. Which would you like to hear, Maomao?”

As she had requested, he addressed her with no honorific or title—in the past, he’d been altogether too respectful toward her. Chue seemed intrigued, though, that they spoke in such familiar terms.

“All of them,” she said firmly.

“Very well. The first has to do with insect plagues. I happen to be in contact with Sir Lahan, and I frequently lean on his knowledge and expertise. He warned me that if there were to be a plague in Li, it would be likely to come either from the north or from the breadbasket to the west.”

Indeed, a small-scale plague of locusts had broken out in the fertile regions to the northwest the year before. The terrifying thing about these insects was that, left alone, they would wreak ever more destruction.

“For reasons I won’t pretend to know, I was given the honor of being posted here to the western capital, where I’m treated essentially as a bureaucrat. The polite term for what I do might be secretarial work, but less favorably, I could be called an errand boy. Some of the paperwork I deal with just happens to be about harvests, so I took an incidental interest in the availability of stores and provisions.”

“Do you really need to go visit in person, though?”

“That’s the second reason.” Rikuson held up two fingers.

Maomao’s eyes widened. She wasn’t sure what he could mean.

Rikuson smiled, almost apologetically. “I think you may be aware of this already—that the numbers in the reports regularly fail to line up with the actual amounts?”

Was he talking about the attempts to fudge the production quantities? Such things did indeed seem to be going on in the farming villages.

“What’s the third reason, then?” Rikuson had said he had several reasons, and Maomao didn’t think just two would qualify as several.

“The third reason?” His mouth sat open for just a beat. Then he said, “A long time ago, I heard that there was a special form of cultivation. Something that would decrease the number of pest insects.”

“You mean fall plowing. So that’s why you spoke to Nianzhen.”

“That’s right. Do you see now?” Rikuson’s smile was gentle. Maomao thought he looked thinner than the last time she’d seen him.

“Who told you about fall plowing?” Maomao asked.

“My mother and my older sister. My mother was a merchant who engaged in trade far and wide, and my sister helped her. I learned quite a bit from them in my younger days.” Rikuson looked out the window of the carriage, but he didn’t seem to be taking in the scenery.

“That makes sense,” said Maomao.

What else do I need to ask?

She spent long enough thinking about it that they arrived at the village, the carriage rattling as it slowed. Maomao stuck her head out the window. Wheat shimmered golden in the fields—it looked like a rich harvest. She saw green leaves too, suggesting the villagers had planted potatoes.

All right. Shall we dedicate ourselves to farmwork for a while?
 Herb collecting could come on the way home. Maomao had just hopped out of the carriage, sprightly and ready to go, when she saw a fast rider coming up behind. That wasn’t so remarkable in itself—but from the man’s look, something was clearly wrong.

Maybe he was attacked by bandits?

No, that wasn’t it.

The horse stopped in front of Maomao and her party, its tongue lolling from its mouth as it listed to one side. Its rider wore the uniform of a soldier.

I think I recognize him.
 He was one of the guards who frequently attended Jinshi. That would suggest he was of a fair rank—so what was he doing running himself ragged catching up with them?

“What’s going on?” Maomao asked. She held out water, but the man shook his head. His mouth worked open and shut; he didn’t say a word, but gave her a piece of paper.

The heck?

The paper, folded as small as possible, seemed to be a letter from Lahan’s Brother.

“The Moon...Prince... He said if you saw this...you would understand...”

Understand what?
 Maomao wondered. Perplexed, she opened the letter.

A single line ran down the page. It wasn’t even drawn with a brush; it looked messy, like Lahan’s Brother had used a piece of charcoal as an improvised writing instrument. But that wasn’t all—the line had been violently scratched out again. The letter didn’t even say where it was from, but there was no mistaking who had sent it.

Lahan’s Brother had needed to tell them something so badly that he had found time in the midst of some sort of chaos to send a pigeon with this message.

I know what this is
, Maomao thought. She realized she recognized the dark scribbles. They resembled the picture that the girl Jazgul had given her the year before, after the visit of the Shaohnese shrine maiden.

Maomao hadn’t understood what it meant then.

But I do now.

The line was the horizon that spread out before her. And the blot was a dark cloud.

She looked at the sky, still clear and blue, and said, “They’re coming.”