Chapter 12: The Feitouman (Part 2)

Jinshi studied the animal in the cage. “I’ve never seen a bird with a face quite like this before. I never imagined.”

They had moved to Jinshi’s chambers, where he sat in the place of honor, with Suiren, Taomei, and Chue around him, as well as Basen for his bodyguard. Maomao suspected Basen’s older brother Baryou was nearby as well, but she didn’t expect to actually see him at any point. Gaoshun was absent; whether he was off duty or on some other errand, she didn’t know. For some reason, Tianyu was there too, smiling away.

Pretend you have work or something and get out of here!
 Maomao thought at him, but if it seemed like something interesting was going on, Tianyu would make it his business to be a part of it.

“What made you think a bird like this might be the true identity of our feitouman?” Jinshi asked.

Maomao closed her eyes. She would have to be careful not to give Tianyu any information that might tip him off.

“Sir. The first thing that struck me as odd was the word ‘mask.’ People said they had seen it by the tree or on the roof of the building, so my first thought was to look near the tree. My encounter with the alleged spirit also took the form of a mask.”

Chue had noticed the tree as well. Maomao’s investigation had turned up bird droppings—and not those of a small bird, but rather a fairly large, carnivorous one.

“I’ve seen small birds flying through the house during the day, so it occurred to me that if there was a predator around, they might well be nocturnal.”

“Mm. So that was when you realized there was a bird behind these apparitions. How did you prove it?”

“Once I knew about this bird, sir, it was a fairly simple guess. I’d never seen one myself, but I had heard of birds with faces that look like masks. There was a picture of one in the encyclopedia of animals that I got at the apothecary’s shop where I used to work. Although I admit I didn’t pay it much mind the first time I saw it.”

She trusted Jinshi would know which encyclopedia she was referring to—one of the books brought out of the Shi clan fortress. It was in Jinshi’s keeping at the moment; if he’d brought it to the western capital, he might be able to look at it.

“An encyclopedia?” Jinshi said with a glance at Taomei. She brought out an armload of books, Chue helping to carry those she couldn’t fit in her arms. The books included the encyclopedia of medicinal herbs, along with those about insects and animals. Those were Shi clan books, but there were several others Maomao had never seen.

Guess he didn’t waste any time digging them out after yesterday.