Chapter 1: Dried Fruit

Maomao was at one of the stoves, cooking. Afraid she might poison herself if she didn’t get some air, she took a deep breath in, let it out again, then wrapped a hand towel around her nose and mouth.

It had been five days since the swarm, and they were finally almost rid of the grasshoppers around the medical office. There were a few survivors—at least until Maomao found them, whereupon she would crush them underfoot.

“Do we still need those poisonous plants?” Lihaku asked as he stirred a big pot.

“Yeah. There might be a second wave.” Maomao chopped some of the herbs in question with a cleaver and dumped them in the pot. “You need to make sure you cover your mouth, Master Lihaku.”

“Aw, it’s just a little smoke, isn’t it?” He frowned, not wanting to take the trouble.

“Do we remember what happened when we weren’t careful around the burned-out storehouse? Do we remember singeing our head?”

“Urk...” Lihaku obediently covered his nose and mouth.

“Miss Maomao! Miss Maomaaaao!” Chue appeared, announced by her distinctive tip-tapping footsteps. She was carrying a large box. “I got the extra medicine and bandages you wanted!”

“Thank you,” Maomao said, inspecting the contents of the box. “Is this all?”

“Afraid so,” Chue said with an apologetic look. Despite the box’s size, there wasn’t actually much in it. Certainly not nearly as much as Maomao had asked for. “Supplies are short everywhere. I think we’ll just have to make do.”

“Yes, of course. You’re right.”

The grasshoppers might be gone, but that didn’t mean they could relax. People were on edge, and that sort of anxiety could lead to outbreaks of violence. Some people were hurt, and many more were in poor health. Medicine always seemed to be in short supply already—with a contagion about, of course they wouldn’t have enough.

Maomao passed Chue a mortar and pestle, encouraging her to work too. Chue obligingly but resignedly rolled up her sleeves.

I don’t think we’ll run out of actual food. But there are other problems.

The bugs hadn’t gotten to all of the provisions in the grain silos, but there was a dearth of fruit and vegetables, meaning everyone would have an imbalanced diet for the foreseeable future.

The real trouble is a few months from now.
 Supplies would need to be closely regulated until the next harvest.

People could be complex and difficult. Just telling them that everything would be fine and to relax wouldn’t do the trick. As soon as they realized there wouldn’t be enough to go around, they would start hoarding. Soon there would be shortages, and then people would start to starve.

Maomao said, “I’m sure our dear acting governor is well aware of all that...”

“When you get right down to it, Master Gyoku-ou is a doer,” Chue replied pointedly.

“A doer?”

For a variety of reasons, Maomao was not personally a big fan of Gyoku-ou’s, but a mark of adulthood was the ability to separate personal animus from objective evaluation.

“He sent provisions and distributed food around the western capital and the surrounding towns, wherever there wasn’t enough to eat. Being quick to act, that’s worth a lot.”

A swift initial response would do much to reassure the populace.

“Started sharing right away, huh? Generous! I thought the powerful were supposed to try to keep everything for themselves,” Lihaku said, impressed.

“Right? But he sent carriages full of provisions, all carefully calculated based on the population and the extent of the damage to each area.” Chue never missed a thing, did she? She seemed to have checked all this out herself.

Wait. Is that... Was it all the stuff Rikuson had been preparing for so long? He’d made plenty of reports to Gyoku-ou. If the ruler had leveraged those, it would all make sense. If that’s true... It would show that Gyoku-ou wasn’t caught up in his pride, was willing to use anything and anyone he could, even those who had come from the central region. Maybe the reason he ordered Rikuson to stay behind in the village rather than coming straight home was precisely so as to get a better picture of what was happening on the ground.

Maomao couldn’t offer Gyoku-ou her unqualified approbation, not when she knew how he had used Jinshi as a convenient foil, hardly treating him like a real Imperial relative. Still, she had to admit that as one of those politicians who felt his first duty was to his homeland, Gyoku-ou was proving quite effective.

I know someone who could stand to learn a thing or two from him. She wondered how Jinshi felt about the way Gyoku-ou was treating him. The audacity of it doesn’t seem to bother him.

He did, however, chafe at his inability to act openly. He wanted to help, but his hands were tied by his status as a guest and visitor. Still, he did what he could, like sending Lihaku with Maomao to the farming village, or getting the freak strategist to form a bug-extermination team. Jinshi was like a duck—paddling like hell underneath.

Jinshi never seemed unduly attached to his power. Yes, he sometimes acted like a man of authority, but when had he really pressed his status as Imperial younger brother?

During the Shi clan rebellion, maybe, but that’s about the only time I can think of.

On that occasion, Jinshi had wielded his status openly. Maomao was in no position to criticize him—she had been one reason he had done what he did—but in any case, that was the moment His Majesty’s younger brother had been most visible to the public, quashing a rebellion.

Maomao knew that after that, Jinshi had begun to fulfill the duties of his station in life. He’d been as busy as he’d been during his time as a “eunuch”—maybe even busier—but much of his work was things that had been foisted upon him. As far as projects he chose to pursue of his own volition...

The preparations to counter the swarm are about the only thing I can think of.

People said he was worrying too much; they said he was raising taxes unreasonably; ordinary people and bureaucrats alike had regarded him with disdain, but still he had done it.

He should have made himself more visible. Like he was when he was a eunuch. Since returning to his position as Imperial younger brother, Jinshi had hardly used his most potent weapon: his looks.

Maybe he’s holding back so he doesn’t get flooded with suitors. Without the buffer of being a “eunuch,” and now with the added inducement of the power of being the Emperor’s younger brother, there would be no shortage of women who wished to become his queen.

Suitors, huh...

Maomao recalled Rikuson’s little joke. She could only assume Chue had reported it to Jinshi along with everything else. What a lot of trouble.

“Miss Chue, did you report everything?” Maomao asked. She deliberately chose not to say what she was thinking of—how Rikuson had asked, back in the village, if he might seek her hand in marriage.

“I’m not sure what report you mean, but don’t worry. It’s all kept top secret from our honored strategist,” Chue said.

Maomao paused. So she had told Jinshi. Lihaku gave them a look—he didn’t know what they were talking about—but he kept stirring the pot.

“If it was just a joke, then no harm done, right?” Chue said.

“Right. And it 
was
 just a joke.”

“Right. But some people might take it seriously.”

That was premeditated! Chue knew exactly what she was talking about. Maomao pictured Jinshi at his most troublesome. Boy, was she going to get an earful about this the next time they saw each other. Then again, maybe it would be all right...

“All done, young lady!” said the quack doctor, showing her a big, flat dish filled with rows of pills. Each of the pills was about as large as a grain of rice and very consistent in size, showing that he had used a mold to make them. Maomao remembered when she had first met the quack—she’d been shocked to discover he was producing the balls of medicine by hand, causing each one to be a slightly different size.

“Thank you very much. If you could deal with these next, please.”

“Sure! Don’t mind if I do.” The quack was in fine spirits, although it was hard to tell which of them was the physician and which the assistant.

Not to mention, somewhere along the line, Tianyu had disappeared. When Maomao went to find him to try to get him to help, she discovered him dissecting some former livestock at the cafeteria. In I-sei Province, adults were expected to be able to butcher animals, so a doctor who knew how to do the same didn’t raise any eyebrows. Maomao even started to think that maybe Tianyu had become a doctor precisely because he liked dissecting things.

“This is practice. Wouldn’t want to lose my edge,” he said, dangling one of the animal’s legs teasingly at Maomao. Being a prick, as usual.

Dr. You and the others were busy treating the injured and sick in town. Everyone who had been posted at the main house and the administrative office had their hands full trying to deal with the aftermath of the plague. The freak strategist in particular was always short-staffed, so he appropriated a few people from the annex as reinforcements, leaving the place quieter than usual.

Maomao took stock of the annex as she walked back to the medical office. A minimal handful of people had been left behind to guard Jinshi. The presence of lively souls like the quack and Chue made the place seem boisterous, but they were two of only a few voices to be heard around the annex. The bustling of the marketplace was absent, and there was no laughter of children playing. Occasionally, raised voices might be heard in a minor argument, but that was about all.

Wish I could go out there and get a look at the city , Maomao thought. Unfortunately, this wasn’t the time for a constitutional. Even if the weather was very nice.

The quack doctor, too, gazed out the window as he squeeeeeezed the mold down. He was checking the position of the sun. “I think it’s about snack time,” he mumbled longingly. Normally, snack time would see him off to the kitchen, somehow finagling himself some food.

“Hmm... I’m not sure snack time is on the cards today either,” Chue said with a sniff. “They’re filling up the storehouses and worried about staple foods. I think our little pleasures will have to wait.”

“Sure, sure...” said the quack, who had been enduring life without snacks for several days now.

“Wh-Where’s the doctor?” she asked.

It was the most roundabout way of refusing that she could think of.