Then they had the servants hold the girl’s arms and legs. Maomao arranged an apron to cover everything but the operating site.

It was full dark outside, and they had several lights brought so that they could see where they were supposed to cut. To Maomao, it almost looked like the flames danced in answer to the patient’s breathing. In, out.

It was true: working on the living was different from working on the dead. However much they had chilled the skin, there would be blood. The blade of Tianyu’s knife was as fine as a razor.

Tools are an important part of doctoring , Maomao thought. Dr. Liu could exhort them as much as he liked to keep their ego out of it; it still annoyed Maomao that she wasn’t as skilled as Tianyu. If she could get her hands on some tools that might help close the gap, then she wanted to.

The patient was looking pretty out of it from the drugs, her perceptions successfully numbed. That came as a relief to Maomao, who wiped at the blood that poured forth as Tianyu worked.

“Here it is,” Tianyu said, his fingers brushing the swollen small intestine. He gently made an incision with his knife, then plunged a pair of forceps into the opening. Even the servants, who had watched them cut the girl’s stomach open without flinching, recoiled.

“Is there something in there?”

“You called it, Niangniang.”

With the forceps, Tianyu extracted a ball of undigested fruit fibers and a substantial quantity of hair that trailed from the intestine. Out and out it came as he pulled, dangling grotesquely.

Maomao offered Tianyu a tray, and he dropped the hair-and-fiber lump into it. There was still hair in the intestines, so Tianyu went back in with the forceps. Maomao had her mouth and nose covered, but even so the smell was nauseating, an acrid mix of blood and alcohol and stomach juices. The servants turned away as best they could, but they kept hold of the girl’s arms and legs, faithful to the end.

“I didn’t think a gastrolith formed exclusively of persimmon pits would be enough to cause an intestinal blockage,” Maomao said. The patient’s lack of appetite could probably be explained by her habit of eating her own hair. It wasn’t entirely uncommon—some people ate things that weren’t food as a response to stress. In this case, the girl had eaten more of her hair than usual because of the stress of the grasshopper plague, and exacerbated it with fibrous fruits and then persimmons. All of them together had formed the blockage.

Tianyu decided he had extracted all the hair he could and set the forceps aside. There were probably still strands in there, but they weren’t going to be able to get all of them. The rest could be addressed by drinking copious water and maybe taking some laxatives to help work them through.

Maomao passed Tianyu the needle and thread. She used a hook to hold the incision open, making it easier to see the intestines, and wiped up the blood as it continued to flow. Each time Tianyu finished with a stitch, he swapped for the scissors and cut the thread. He stayed stooped over the patient as sweat poured down his brow.

When she was sure they had tied the last knot, Maomao felt a wave of exhaustion. She wished they could just put the patient back in bed, but this wasn’t over yet. She wiped down the surgical site, taking care not to press too hard. Tianyu had been the star of the surgery itself, but it would fall on Maomao to care for the patient now that the procedure was over.

She’ll need more painkillers for sure, and I should prepare some fever medication. Something to stop infection too; that will be crucial. And I have to explain to them what she should eat and how to care for her now that the operation is over.

In other words, there was much to do. At the same time, Maomao wanted to ask the patient’s mother a few questions.

The servants who had been holding the girl down looked almost as spent as the doctors felt. The child had never fought, thankfully, but they were exhausted nonetheless.

“Say, Niangniang,” said Tianyu, who had already scrambled out of his blood-soaked surgical garment. He took the forceps and picked up the object they had extracted. “Do gastric juices make hair change color?” The hairball was discolored in places, brownish.

“Somewhat, maybe. Citrus juice can do it, after all.”

Maomao looked again at the patient’s hair. It was thin because she’d been pulling it out and eating it. The roots were white.

Maomao took the tray with the blockage on it and opened the door.

“Y-You’re finished?!” the girl’s mother asked. She was there, her face devoid of color. She must have been waiting at the door the entire time. Lihaku was simply sitting in a chair; he was used to waiting around.

“Yes, the surgery was a success,” Maomao said. “Would you come inside so we can give you some instructions?”

“Yes, of course.” The mother and a servant entered. The servant was the one who had summoned Maomao and Tianyu. As she and her mistress entered, the other two servants, the ones who had held the girl down, left the room.

“Who do you want to handle the instructions?” Maomao asked Tianyu.

“Hmm... Sounds annoying. You do it. Each of us does what we’re best at, right? Anyway, I get the feeling you’ve noticed something that was lost on me.”

As skilled a surgeon as he was, Tianyu was still Tianyu.

Once the mother and her servant were inside, Maomao made sure the door was closed, then showed them the tray. “This is what was stuck in your daughter’s intestines.”

The other two women cringed when they saw the undigested lump of fruit and hair.

“Why didn’t you tell us that your daughter has a habit of eating her own hair?”

The mother couldn’t quite meet Maomao’s eyes.

Maomao supplied her own answer. “No highborn person could bear the idea of anyone knowing their daughter did something so uncouth, could they? Fine.” She had half a mind to needle them about it a little more, but she would have to leave it at that. The issue was, they couldn’t afford to have something like this happen again. “Abnormal behaviors like eating one’s own hair are frequently caused by stress. Has anything happened to your daughter that might account for that?”

“No,” the woman said slowly. “No, I’ve only brought her up in the way that any...any mother would.”

Liar. Maomao picked up the lump with the forceps. The light and dark hairs formed a mottled pattern. “Your daughter’s hair is naturally auburn, isn’t it? You’ve been dying it black—that’s the source of the stress. Or am I wrong?”

The mother flinched; she pursed her lips and one eye began to twitch. Her lady-in-waiting looked at the ground.

“If we don’t resolve the cause, this will only happen again. How many times do you want your daughter’s stomach to be cut open?”

“It’s not like I enjoy doing it,” the mother said softly. “But the girl has light-brown hair, and her father and I... We both have black hair...”

“Even two parents with black hair can produce a child with brown hair. It must happen fairly often here in I-sei Province. There’s enough foreign blood going around.”

After a long moment the woman said, “My father won’t see it that way.”

Her father?
 That would be Gyoku-ou. What did he have to do with this?

“My father hates all foreign blood. I-sei Province is part of Li, so he believes it should be ruled by a black-haired Linese. I always thought the same thing.”

Until his own daughter gave birth to a grandchild with light hair.

“My father was distraught by his granddaughter. I had heard, though, that an infant’s hair color can grow darker with age, so I told him she would have black hair eventually. But she never did.”

So the white roots weren’t from hair that had gone white with fear, but because the mother hadn’t had time to redye her daughter’s hair during the swarm. Considering the servant wasn’t saying a thing, Maomao suspected she might be helping to dye the patient’s hair.

Hates foreigners, huh? That was a tough philosophy to get away with when you lived in a nexus of trade. Then again, sometimes familiarity was precisely what bred contempt.

Maomao thought of her red-haired Empress. Gyokuyou and her half-brother might both be Gyokuen’s children, but the family wasn’t monolithic, as this story showed.

“If she won’t stop eating her hair, then I suggest shaving her head until she calms down,” said Maomao. It seemed like the quickest way.

“Shave her head?! What is she, a nun?”

“If you let it keep growing, she’ll just have baldish patches, and will that look better? Besides, if she continues to damage the roots, eventually the hair will stop growing at all.” As she talked, Maomao began taking medicines out of her bag. Anti-infective agents, antipyretics, painkillers. “At the moment, seeing her safely through the hours and days after her surgery is more important. I’m going to give you detailed instructions. If you feel you don’t understand them, I can write down the important points. She needs someone to keep an eye on her postsurgical progress. It doesn’t have to be me and this physician if you don’t like us, but make sure you get some doctor to look at her. I do have to warn you that even if the surgery was a success, she could take a turn for the worse if she doesn’t get proper treatment after.”

If the wound opened or got infected, for example, there would be trouble.

“For now she’s still numb, so she’s calm, but as the painkillers wear off, it’s going to start hurting. Don’t let her touch the surgical site. The pain may keep her awake and she may run a fever. I have medicines here for both those possibilities that you can use as necessary.”

There was a moment as the woman absorbed all this, then she said, “I understand.” Her lip quivered as she approached the bed where her daughter slept. She brushed her thin hair, the faintest hint of relief on her face.

Finally Tianyu spoke up. “I kept the incision to half as long as my assistant said!”

And it was true: he had cut barely half of what Maomao had threatened. What was more, the stitches were as delicate as the incision; if all went well, the scar would be virtually invisible. Maomao couldn’t suppress a flash of annoyance even as she wrote down her instructions.

Wonder if she’ll really follow these.

She had her doubts—but she was very, very eager to get this over with and leave.