If missing snack time is the worst of his troubles, he’s pretty lucky , Maomao thought as she started mixing up some medicine.

She was so focused on her concoction that she almost didn’t notice evening falling. She was just cleaning up tools when someone knocked loudly on the office door.

“Who’s there?” Lihaku demanded. He opened the door to find a young woman, white as a sheet. One of the ladies-in-waiting, maybe.

“The doctor? You mean me?” The quack trotted up with a blank expression. The woman had obviously come running as hard as she could, and he offered her a cup of water. “C-Come with me!” she cried. “Please! The young... The young mistress!”

Young mistress? Maomao wondered. She hadn’t heard about any mistress. Then again, this was Gyokuen’s home, so she was sure whoever this person was, they must be a relative of his. Even with only a few guards left, no one of suspicious background would be admitted to the annex.

It was obvious from the woman’s behavior that this was an emergency, but Maomao didn’t think dragging the quack doctor to the scene was going to get the poor maid very far. Knowing she couldn’t allow one of Gyokuen’s own relatives to go unattended, Maomao raised her hand. “If you’ll pardon me. The Master Physician is here exclusively to tend to the Moon Prince. We can’t let you just cart him off somewhere. Aren’t there any other doctors in this house?”

“They’re all out! Please! If someone doesn’t help her, the young mistress... She’ll...!”

Figured.

A special exception had been made for this annex because a member of the Imperial family was in residence—but the other doctors, including Dr. You, were all pressed into service to treat the commoners in town. If even they had to go serve in the city, how much busier must the local physicians be?

“Could you at least tell us what’s going on with your mistress?” Maomao asked, making the woman drink the water the quack had brought her. She slugged it down in a single gulp, then slowly let out a breath. “For starters, who is your mistress?” Maomao hated how long this was going to take, but she had to start at the beginning.

After a moment, the woman said, “She’s Master Gyokuen’s granddaughter.”

“How old is she?”

“Eight.”

“And her symptoms?”

“Well, she never did eat very much, but ever since the swarm of grasshoppers, she’s nearly stopped taking any food at all. The only thing she’s been willing to eat for days is fruit, but then today she complained her stomach hurt and vomited several times.”

Stomach pains and vomiting? Those symptoms could be almost anything.

“What kind of fruit did she eat today?” Maomao asked. Conceivably, the girl could have gotten food poisoning from consuming bad fruit, but even in an emergency like this, Maomao had trouble picturing a “young mistress” eating something rotten.

“Her mother gave her dried fruit.”

“Raisins, perchance?”

The woman shook her head. “No. Something that had been brought from the capital—I didn’t recognize it.”

“From the capital...” Maomao cocked her head. I-sei Province produced more dried fruit than the capital did. What was there in Kaou Province that they didn’t have here?

“It had reddish-brown skin and looked like it had been dusted in white powder,” the woman said.

Maomao’s eyes went wide. The lady-in-waiting seemed to be describing a dried persimmon. “All right. We’ll see your mistress right away. Where is she?” Maomao scrambled to get tools and medicines from the office shelves, then shoved them into a bag.

“Y-Young lady! You can’t just go running off on your own!” the quack cried.

“If we leave her, in the worst-case scenario, she might die!”

“D-D-Die?!” The quack trembled visibly. Lihaku picked up Maomao’s bag, while Chue seemed to have vanished in the meantime. “But... But I can’t leave the office...”

“I’ll go.” Maomao couldn’t exactly be 
sure
-sure, but she was 
almost
 sure that the quack wouldn’t be able to treat the girl. She figured she would have to deal with this herself—but then someone else spoke up.

“Not by yourself you won’t, Niangniang. You’re not even a doctor.”

Who should it be but the man with the indolent grin? Tianyu was leaning against one of the posts in the medical office, a bag full of supplies already in his hand.

“I’ll go with you. At least I have the title of physician.”

He seemed to have gotten very interested in this case, but his presence made Maomao more anxious, not less.

“You’re coming with me?”

“No, Niangniang. 
You’re
 coming with 
me
.”

Maomao stood in silence for a moment. He was right that according to the hierarchy, she was just there to help. And she had to admit that Tianyu was better than the quack when it came to actual doctoring.

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao!” Chue had reappeared in the meantime. “I reported to the Moon Prince.”

She worked quickly, all right.

“And what did he say?” Maomao asked. Even if she and Tianyu were willing to go see the patient, they wouldn’t be going anywhere without Jinshi’s permission. The lady-in-waiting, too, watched Chue intently.

“He says you can go ahead and go! Just make sure that you discuss the treatment very, verrry thoroughly with the patient!”

Lihaku looked like he was getting ready to accompany them; he was ordering another soldier to look after the quack.

Maomao turned to the worried servant and said, “Show us where we need to go.”

The lady-in-waiting guided them to a house near the annex. When they were ushered into the patient’s room, they found a woman in her mid-twenties by the bed—Maomao took her to be the child’s mother. She quaked violently. The sharply delineated features of her face were the picture of a classic western beauty.

A young girl lay on the bed, her face bloodless. She resembled her mother, but something, maybe the way she was lying there, made her look thin and weak.

Maomao and Tianyu asked Lihaku to wait at the door, then they went into the room. Chue had wanted to come with them, but this time she’d had to stay home.

“M-My daughter! Please, help my daughter!” The mother looked like she hadn’t even had time to brush her hair; it was stuck to her cheeks in messy strands.

“Yes, ma’am,” Tianyu said. He moved to pull the covers back from the patient, but the woman exclaimed, “What are you doing?!”

“I can’t very well examine the patient if I can’t see her,” he said. He was right, as far as it went—but these highborn houses were much concerned about chastity. They resisted the idea of a man looking at a woman’s body, even if the woman was a child of eight.

It was clear from the expression on Tianyu’s face that he had no interest whatsoever in a kid like this, but it was lost on her mother. Some people seemed to think doctors were all-powerful—that they could divine the patient’s condition, whatever it was, just by taking a pulse.

Maomao glanced at Tianyu.

“All right,” he said. “Would there be any issue if my assistant touches the patient?”

“N-No, I suppose that would be all right...”

Maomao bowed, then rolled back the covers. She took a spoon from her bag of tools and checked the inside of the girl’s mouth. She opened the patient’s eyelids and looked at her eyes.

“I’d like to open the patient’s robe. Would that be all right?” Maomao asked. She was speaking to the mother, but she glared at Tianyu, who held up his hands and turned around.

Maomao undid the robe and felt the patient’s abdomen. It was noticeably swollen. She slid her fingers across the skin, and when she found something that felt hard and round, she pressed gently. The girl groaned.

“Wh-What was that?” the mother said.

“Gas is trapped in the stomach. There’s a foreign object in her intestines that’s preventing it from escaping.” Just like I thought. Maomao had guessed the moment the lady-in-waiting said the girl had eaten dried persimmons.

“A foreign object?” The mother’s eyes went wide. She seemed to be searching her memory for anything unusual that her daughter might have swallowed.

“I was told she’s eaten nothing but fruit for the last several days,” Maomao said. “And today she had dried fruit—dried persimmons, yes?”

“That’s right. Even when she didn’t seem to have an appetite, she would eat sweet things. Because of those awful grasshoppers, we haven’t been able to get honey or fresh fruit, so I gave her some dried persimmons that we got as a gift. You don’t think they were poisoned, do you?!”

“No, it’s not poison,” Maomao said, gently rebuffing the mother as she tried to squeeze closer to her daughter. “Eating too many persimmons can cause stones in the stomach. How many persimmons did she eat?”

After a moment, the woman replied, “Three.”

“Three?” Pretty good job for a little kid. But not enough to cause a gastrolith, Maomao suspected. Is it possible? Could three persimmons do that? Maybe they got caught in the fibers from the other fruit?

She thought it through, trying to figure out if there was anything she was missing. A bead of sweat began to roll down the patient’s forehead, and Maomao absently wiped it away with a cloth.

Huh?!

Then she realized why the patient looked so haggard. Unlike her mother’s bountiful head of hair, the child’s hair was thin and scraggly, and it was turning white at the roots.

White hair?

It was said that a terrifying experience could turn the hair white—and there was no question that witnessing a huge swarm of grasshoppers would be a major shock for an eight-year-old child.

Well, now was the time for action, not thinking. But how to explain to the mother? They couldn’t just charge ahead.

“When there’s a foreign object in the stomach, there are three main modes of treatment,” Maomao began.

“Y-Yes?”

Maomao looked at Tianyu. He was still turned around, but even with his back to her she could see him nod. He was going to let her handle this part.

“First, you can give the patient water to help move the object through the insides and eventually evacuate it.”

The mother nodded.

“The second way, by contrast, is to administer liquid medication from below to encourage evacuation.”

From below—in other words, through the anus.

“Water! Bring water!” the panicked mother commanded a servant before even hearing what the third option was.

“I’m afraid in the case of your daughter, I can’t recommend it. It seems likely that she would simply vomit up any water she drank.”

“So you’re going with the second possibility?” the mother asked. She didn’t seem to like the idea of inserting medicine through the behind—but if that would have worked, they could have counted themselves lucky.