“No. Based on what I felt during my examination, I don’t think encouraging evacuation will flush out the object.”

“You can’t do the second thing either? What’s the third thing, then?” The woman fixed her with a look which, while not as potent as Taomei’s, was formidable nonetheless.

“We cut open her stomach and remove the obstruction by hand.”

Instantly the woman’s face hardened and she pounded a nearby table. “You think this is funny?! You want to cut open my daughter’s stomach?! You won’t lay a finger on her!”

The mother, naturally, refused the suggestion. She gave Maomao her most frightening look, eyes flashing.

About what I expected.

“You’re ordering us to attempt the first and second methods repeatedly in order to remove the obstruction?” Maomao said.

“I am, and you’d better do it quickly!”

“I’m afraid I can’t do what you’re asking in good conscience. The patient would most likely only die. If you absolutely must use those methods, you’ll have to do it yourself.”

Maomao kept her voice calm and level. She felt for the young girl lying agonized on the bed, but she couldn’t just administer a random treatment. If the girl died, there would be serious repercussions. If she ignored the mother and simply bulled ahead with a shocking treatment, however, she would get them thrown out.

There was only one choice: she had to persuade the mother.

“I have to warn you, I don’t think there’s time to consult with another doctor. If possible, I want to do the surgery right here, right now.” She looked at the mother, whose eyes darted to Tianyu.

“You’re a real doctor, aren’t you? What this...assistant of yours is saying can’t be right, can it?”

“I concur with her opinion,” Tianyu replied in his most serious tone. “A simple gastrolith could be treated with one of the two methods she described. However, the swelling of the stomach in this case indicates an intestinal blockage. Your daughter needs immediate attention.”

He sounded far more official than he usually did, but Maomao found herself on edge just the same. She was worried that he might slip back into his typical offhanded tone at any moment.

“If you cut into her belly... Won’t that mean she can no longer bear children?” the mother asked.

“We won’t touch the womb. The blockage is located far away from the reproductive organs,” Maomao said, communicating the results of her exam. She was lucky that the physical examination had revealed the location of the problem. If they kept their heads and worked calmly, this would be a relatively easy surgery.

At least, it would be for someone like Dr. Liu.

This wasn’t like attempting to remove lesions, or even extracting a shattered bone. Maomao tried to look steady, to reassure the mother.

“How much harm 
will
 you have to do? Whatever this thing is, it’s not small, is it?” the mother asked, looking at Maomao with anxiety all over her face.

“I’ll make a nine-centimeter incision in the skin. Then I’ll cut into the stomach, remove the blockage, and then sew everything up with thread. There will be a scar, but it should fade as she grows.”

Maomao couldn’t guarantee that the scar would disappear—a dire thought for the daughter of a noble family like this one.

“Nine centimeters...” The mother hesitated. But Maomao knew her daughter’s life had to be more important to her.

“That’s how long it will be if 
I
 do it.”

“What does that mean?”

Maomao looked at Tianyu. “If you allow the physician here to do the operation, I expect it would be less than half that length.”

Much as it kills me to say it.

Tianyu was, in fact, a gifted surgeon, as Maomao knew from seeing him dissect animals and work with cadavers. She might spend years practicing before she got as good as he was.

Just don’t let it go to your head, you little...

Dr. Liu had warned them repeatedly during the dissections: when they did a real surgery, it wasn’t going to be on a corpse. They were going to have a living, breathing human in front of them. There would be no room for error, he warned them, and they must always seek better surgical techniques. They could not allow themselves to kill a patient because they were caught up in their pride. Instead, they must throw away self-importance and rely on anyone and everyone they could.

So it was that Maomao said to the woman, “A physician bears that title for a reason. If you want the best chance of saving your daughter, then don’t ask a simple assistant like me to do this. You’d be better off trusting the doctor.”

The mother was silent for a long moment, hesitating. She looked at her suffering daughter, then narrowed her eyes and clenched her fist. “Go ahead.”

Maomao let out a sigh of relief. “We’ll need hot water and clean bandages. And could you start a fire for us?”

“Yes.”

“If possible, we also need some ice, but if that’s not available, whatever will most effectively cool the body.”

The mother called a servant and ordered them to prepare everything Maomao and Tianyu would need for the surgery. While they waited, the two opened their bags of tools and took out surgical garments and white aprons, which they put on.

As they got ready, Maomao told Tianyu what she had observed during her examination of the patient, as well as what she suspected the blockage was.

“Seriously? You think it’s...?”

“I can only speculate, but yes.”

She might lag behind him in dissection, but in terms of experience examining patients and assessing symptoms, Maomao was confident that she was ahead. She allowed herself a brief feeling of superiority at Tianyu’s surprise.

“Niangniang, I’m going to do the actual surgery, but maybe you could...”

“I’ll handle the anesthetic. Each of us can do what we’re best at. You have a surgical knife with you?”

“But of course.” Tianyu produced a finely honed knife. Maomao pulled out the medicines she’d brought along.

A child, eight years old, thin.

Yes, they were going to be cutting open her belly, but of course they wanted to minimize the pain as much as possible. Maomao had several analgesics with her. Poppy, thornapple, and henbane were the most well-known of such herbs, but many pain-killing medicines were also poisons. A misjudged dose could have serious consequences.

It was thornapple that Maomao had with her; she was more used to using it than either of the others. It’s often dissolved in wine to administer it, but I’d rather not. Luomen, Maomao’s mentor in all things medical, hadn’t approved of giving medications with wine. True, it would contribute to blunting the pain, but it could also cause changes in the body. It could encourage blood flow and make bleeding harder to stop. It was better avoided, especially with a child who would not be used to it.

Maomao had, in the past, treated a burn without suitable tools or even decent anesthetic, but that had been a special case in which she suspected pain also brought the patient a certain kind of pleasure. She would never normally do that. No, she would never do it again.

She weighed some medicine with a scale. The patient weighs... Let’s call it half what an adult does. She didn’t want to give the girl too much and cause side effects. She would have to work very carefully.

Maomao gently sat the patient up.

“It hurts...”

The girl had been so quiet that Maomao had thought she was asleep, but now she spoke. Maomao smiled a little, then tilted the patient’s chin up. “Take this. It will help.”

She wetted the girl’s lips with the painkiller and helped her drink it. It would take thirty minutes or so for the medicine to take effect. During that time, they could prepare.

“I brought ice,” said the servant, who arrived with ice wrapped in straw. Maomao took it and broke off some chunks, which she put in a leather bag and pressed against the patient’s stomach.

They say you should never chill the abdomen, but there are exceptions to every rule.

Maomao wanted to minimize the amount of painkillers she gave the girl, so instead she numbed the area by making it cold, just as she’d done with Jinshi.

Tianyu polished his little knife, then heated it in the fire. He also had scissors out, as well as something to hold open the incision.

“What do we do about thread?” Maomao asked.

“For the outside, silk. Everything inside, gut,” he replied.

Gut: very literally, thread made from animal intestines. Maomao carefully took out a cloth packet of thread and began inspecting each strand. Ideally, the size should be as consistent as possible, and they wanted to avoid any frayed strands. It was a fraught moment, assessing the implements; they were, after all, about to operate on a young girl.

Finally, Maomao had to make a request of the child’s mother. A cruel request.

“Sometimes the two of us won’t have enough hands during the operation. Could some of your servants help us? Someone who isn’t going to be too disturbed by the sight of blood?”

“What...needs to be done?” the girl’s mother asked.

“We’ve given her anesthetics, but it may not numb all the pain. I tried to go easy on the drugs so there wouldn’t be too many side effects. However, this means that someone may have to hold your daughter down while we work in case she starts thrashing from the pain.”

“Is there any chance I could do it?”

“Do you think you can retain your composure when you see your child in that much pain? Once we start the surgery, we won’t be able to stop.” Maomao gave the woman her most intense look. No matter how much the mother cared about her daughter, if she was going to get in the way, then Maomao needed her out of here.

The mother, however, surprised Maomao with her acquiescence. “All right,” she said. “Will two be enough?”

I thought for sure she would give me a hard time about it. The mother’s face was pale; she must have been near her limit. A servant offered her water.

The mother summoned two more servants, and Maomao instructed them to wash their hands, then dabbed their hands with alcohol. Both of the newcomers were doughty middle-aged women who didn’t look like they would cower at a little blood.

“All right. What say we get started?” said Tianyu, who had wrapped a cloth around his mouth and another around his head. They transferred the patient to an improvised surgical table that the servants had created by putting some long tables together. The patient was breathing much easier; perhaps the painkillers were taking effect. Maomao placed a rag in the girl’s mouth so she wouldn’t bite her tongue.