In a bid to change the subject, Maomao decided to make the report she had come here expecting to make. “The surgery on Master Gyoku-ou’s granddaughter was a success. However, I’d like to continue doing periodic exams to check the progress of her recovery. I assume that will be all right?”

“Ah, yes... I’ve already been in touch with Sir Gyoku-ou. He tells me you may do as you see fit.”

“I see, sir.” Didn’t grandfathers usually dote on their granddaughters? Gyoku-ou’s answer seemed so...disinterested. Perhaps it only sounded that way because she was hearing it through Jinshi.

So he hates foreign blood, does he?
 Maomao thought, recalling what Gyoku-ou’s daughter had told her.

“And what was the trouble with the patient?” Jinshi asked, sitting in a chair.

Maomao let out a deep mental breath and resolved to avoid the subject of Rikuson in the future if at all possible. “It was an intestinal blockage. A foreign object stuck in her innards, which we removed in a surgical procedure. The actual surgery was handled by Tianyu, that new physician. I served as his assistant.”

“Hoh. Here I would have guessed you would be champing at the bit to do it yourself.”

“I would have been willing.” It was, after all, a rare opportunity to gain surgical experience with a relatively safe procedure, and Maomao was as eager as anyone to take advantage of it. “However, the simple fact is that Tianyu far outstrips me in surgical skill.”

“There’s a surprise.” Jinshi almost looked a little disappointed, as if he wished Maomao 
had
 performed the surgery.

The last thing I want is anyone complaining about my surgical treatment. Maybe it was too late with Jinshi—he knew about Maomao’s extensive, personal experience with poisons, and was also aware that she had once lopped off a man’s arm in the name of saving his life.

“So what was this blockage?” Jinshi asked.

“Trust me, sir, you’d rather not know.”

“Tell me it wasn’t grasshoppers.” Maomao saw him blanch a little.

She shook her head. “No, it wasn’t. The blockage was a lump of fruit and hair.”

“Hair?” Jinshi looked perplexed, and Chue and Gaoshun also glanced at Maomao, curious.

She gave them the summary. This included mentioning Gyoku-ou’s distaste for foreigners, but that seemed to come as no shock to Jinshi. He simply said, “He hates foreigners, does he?”

“Do you have someone in mind, sir?” Maomao asked.

“Yes,” he murmured, then intertwined his fingers and narrowed his eyes. “Are you aware of the relationship between Empress Gyokuyou and Sir Gyoku-ou?”

“Vaguely.”

Some time ago, there had been a commotion when the Empress had lost a hair stick. Haku-u, a lady-in-waiting who was quite close with the Empress, had said a few things that came back to Maomao now.

“This is about the matter of Empress Gyokuyou’s ladies-in-waiting, isn’t it?” she asked.

“That’s right. When I was in the central region, the Empress seemed to get along perfectly well with her brother.”

“Only seemed to, sir?” Maomao gave him a puzzled look.

“I mean, I assumed—because during her time in the rear palace, she often got letters from ‘her brother.’ That was true, as far as it went—in that Gyoku-ou is not her only brother.”

“Ah!”

Gyoku-ou and Gyokuyou were far enough apart in age to be father and daughter. It would be no surprise if there were other siblings between them.

“Once I realized that, I saw that there had been signs, even back when I was in charge of the rear palace. The minimal number of her ladies-in-waiting, for example, should have been a tip-off, don’t you think?”

It was certainly true that Gyokuyou had had fewer ladies than the other upper consorts. Even the fact that Maomao, a simple laundry girl, had been admitted to the Jade Pavilion was only thanks to Jinshi’s finagling. Yes, Gyokuyou had lost several ladies-in-waiting to food tasting, and her home was far away in the west, but it now transpired that such things had been only cover, excuses.

“Does Master Gyoku-ou view Empress Gyokuyou as an enemy, then? I mean, because he takes exception to her foreign blood?” asked Maomao.

“That, I don’t know. For all his alleged hatred, he did send an adopted daughter who looks much like the Empress into the rear palace.”

“With a pucker on his face, perhaps.”

Had Gyoku-ou had some negative experience with foreigners in the past? True, it was considered bad form to have strong preferences—in people as in food—but Maomao herself had people that she, ahem, couldn’t stand. She was in no position to judge.

Nonetheless she said, “If he really hates foreigners, he must have a hard life. Living as he does in the one place in Li with more foreigners than anywhere else.”

“That may be precisely the problem. More people, more points of friction.”

Maomao was starting to feel that further discussion of this topic wouldn’t get them much of anywhere. Time to bail out of this subject. She glanced around the room, looking for some chance to escape.

Just then, the door flew open with a crash. “Moon Prince!” In came a young personage with a duck on his head. In all the western capital, there was only one man who fit that description.

“You’ll wake up half the household, Basen,” Jinshi said, paying no heed to the avian.

“I’m sorry, sir. It’s urgent...”

“Urgent? Well, what is it? Tell me!”

“Grand Commandant Kan is on his way here!”

“Does he know what time it is?”

Maomao’s hair stood on end, and if she’d had a tail, it would have puffed right up. Since their arrival in the western capital, the grand commandant had visited Jinshi on several occasions, at which times Maomao had always been careful to make herself scarce, or otherwise to leave matters to the quack doctor.

“I’m here...” said a most terrible voice. Behind Basen loomed the face of an old man, a creature so filthy he just looked like his feet must stink. The duck seemed to mistake his hair for nesting material, because she reached over from atop Basen and pecked at his head.

“Basen!” Jinshi fixed the other man with a glare.

“I’m sorry, sir. The Grant Commandant is...already here,” he said, correcting himself.

“Maomaoooooo! Thank goodness you’re safe!” The monocled old fart tried to shove past Basen, but Basen didn’t budge. The best the freak could do was sort of shloop himself in between Basen and the doorway.

Gaoshun immediately positioned himself to defend Jinshi, while Chue stood in front of Maomao and gave her a 
let-me-handle-this
 wink and a thumbs-up.

You can act as friendly as you want—it doesn’t change the fact that you sold me out.

For the moment Maomao made it her priority to put some distance between herself and the old guy sidling in her direction.

“All those bugs must have been so scary, Maomao! But oooh, don’t you worry. Daddy made a bug extermination squad and will get rid of all those nasty, nasty insects for you!”

Sure. 
This
 is when he decides to get off his ass.

Maomao and the freak strategist shuffled right, then left, stopped, and shuffled again, Chue between them.

Jinshi, observing the moment, cleared his throat to draw the strategist’s attention to himself. “Sir Lakan. I believe I’ve asked you—repeatedly—to inform me before you come here. But since you’re here, what is your business?” A blue vein bulged on Jinshi’s forehead. He knew the answer to his question all too well.

For just a second, the strategist deemed to look at him. “Heavens. I don’t need a reason to come visit my beloved daughter! I went to see her this evening and found she was out, so I just tried somewhere else.” He gave them a sort of mischievous leer. Maomao felt bad to take the opportunity from Basen, who was holding his temper in check quite well, but she wondered if she might be allowed to give the strategist a good kick.

He returned his gaze to Maomao and grinned again, but then his face grew serious. “That was my main motivation for coming, anyway. But there is one more little thing. I’d like you to take the Sage in.”

“The Sage? He’s here?” Jinshi asked, disbelieving.

I think I recognize that name. As Maomao recalled, it was the man who had been watching Jinshi’s game against the freak strategist in the Go tournament. The Emperor’s personal instructor in the game.

“No, no, not him. Maybe I should call him the Western Sage. He’s a prodigy in Shogi, not Go.”

“Shogi?”

The freak strategist was a brilliant player of both games, but he was said to be even more dominant in Shogi than in Go. And yet here was someone he referred to as a “sage” of the game.

“He lost his home in the insect plague, you see. So he turned to me, an old friend.”

Old friend, huh?

Maomao had heard that the strategist had spent some time in the provinces in his younger days. It wasn’t beyond the realm of possibility that he had visited these distant western reaches.

“I see. Yes, there’s been trouble all over,” Jinshi said, and 
hmm
ed thoughtfully.

“’Scuse meee!” Chue, with scant respect for the gravity of the moment, stuck her hand in the air. Her mother-in-law was absent today, so there was nothing to stop her. “Not to be rude, but do you think you might be making it all up?”

Rude—yes, it was, but Maomao agreed with the question. This was, after all, the freak strategist, a man who couldn’t remember people’s faces to save his life. If someone came along impersonating an old acquaintance, how would he know the difference?

“I doubt it. There aren’t that many gold generals running around, although I do want to try to be certain.”

A Gold General! Luomen had told Maomao that the strategist often spoke of people in terms of Shogi pieces, but the average listener would probably have no idea what he was talking about.

“So perhaps we could have a game of Shogi here, just to be sure?” the strategist suggested.

His idea was met with a moment of silence. Maomao wasn’t sure how it followed that there should be a game here and now, but the aide trailing behind the Grand Commandant was carrying a splendid Shogi board. The strategist himself evidently considered the game a foregone conclusion.

“I reiterate... Do you know what time it is?” Jinshi said.

“Oh, please. If he’s the real thing, you might gain some useful information yourself, Moon Prince.” The freak gave Jinshi one of his unctuous smiles.

Jinshi glanced at Maomao. She tried to respond with a don’t-do-it gesture, but from the moment the strategist had found her, there had been no escape. Better to let him waste his time playing his game, then—and anyway, she wondered at his ominous remark.

“All right. I’ll provide a place for you to play Shogi. However, the game will wait until tomorrow.”

“That’s very kind of you, thank you indeed,” the strategist said. (It was hard to tell whether he was genuinely grateful or not.) Maomao tried to ignore the freak, who was smiling to himself. Instead she rubbed her grumbling belly and hoped she could eat dinner soon.