“I think the rare pleasure of playing Shogi with Master Lakan has brought some of my granduncle’s spark back. I realize this may seem a rather impertinent request, but when the game is over, do you think the written records of it might be granted to us?”

“Then, supposing that my granduncle’s mutterings lead to another hidden cache of papers or old game records?”

“Lady Maomao,” Onsou said, visibly concerned.

“The freak strategist doesn’t have any special interest in records of old games, does he?” she asked.

“No, but if he 
were
 to say anything...”

“Just blame it on me.”

“I certainly shall!” Onsou had obviously just wanted to get a firm verbal commitment from Maomao. The man was thorough.

That left only the question, the crucial question, of where these books and papers might possibly be.

“Do you still have those things you wrote down earlier? Could we see them, perchance?” Maomao asked politely.

“Here. I also have all the notes I’ve made thus far,” Small Lin said. He produced a collection, not of sheets of paper or even wooden writing strips, but scraps of parchment.

“These look like game records too,” Maomao said, puzzled. The scraps contained inscriptions like “S59” and “+B83.” Even Maomao, who had no interest in Shogi whatsoever, recognized this as notation showing how the pieces in a Shogi match had moved. This notation involved foreign numerals not used in Kaou Province, perhaps for ease of reading.

Does this seriously mean anything? Maomao held back a groan. Instead she turned to Onsou and asked, “Do you have another Shogi board and some pieces we could borrow?” When you didn’t understand something, there was nothing better than to try it out.

Onsou furnished the materials, and with a 
click-click-click
, Maomao began to line up the pieces.

“Let’s see... S59 would be...” She tried to put the pieces where the notes indicated, but increasingly she suspected it was a futile endeavor. She was just about to place one of the Pawns when she stopped.

“Now, that’s funny,” Chue interjected, looking at the board. “It says that Pawn should move to row two.”

“Huh! Even I know that’s an illegal move.” Now Lihaku was getting in on the act.

“And there are three Dragons too. That’s not normal. Maybe not all of these notes relate to the same game,” Onsou said, peering at the board. “I wonder if this would make more sense to me if I knew more about Shogi.”

“You aren’t well-versed in the game, sir?” Maomao asked.

“I know how to play, more or less, but please remember whom I serve under. I’m not eager to turn a pastime into yet another job.” Onsou had a dead look in his eyes.

“Boy, I feel that!” Lihaku said, not looking much better.

“Why’s that, Master Lihaku? You don’t serve directly under the strategist... In fact, I don’t think you have much to do with him at all, do you?” Maomao asked. Lihaku was a soldier, true enough, but he saw far less of the freak strategist than Onsou did.

Instead of answering, Lihaku said, “Look at this outline. Doesn’t it remind you of a map of the capital?”

“A city set in a perfect grid, with the throne at the top. It’s right there!”

“Ah... I think I see what you mean.”

In short, Lihaku couldn’t look at a Go board without seeing the capital. This being a Shogi setup, it’s not exactly the same, but still. She understood what he was getting at. As a soldier who spent much of his time guarding the royal city, he saw a lot of maps of the place.

“Let’s start by lining up all the pieces from the notes,” Maomao said. There followed a series of clicks as she put the pieces in place—but they turned out to be distinctly clustered in one part of the board. “Does this look like a Shogi game to you?”

“Not much of one,” Small Lin said. He seemed to be the most Shogi-capable person left awake, with Big Lin and the strategist both off in dreamland. It wasn’t clear how much Chue knew about the game, so Maomao would discount her opinion.

“If it’s not a Shogi game, what do you think it is?” Maomao asked, raising her hand in a gesture of total defeat.

“Yeah, the King piece is really flying around everywhere,” Lihaku said.

“Miss Chue had the same thought! That Jade General really gets around.”

Maomao agreed with her companions. The Jade General, which normally moved one slow square at a time, had worked its way all the way to the center of the board.

“Jade,” Maomao murmured, gazing at the board. “
Gyoku
.”

The King, the opposing leader, sat smack in the center on the northern side of the board. A number of other pieces likewise seemed oddly out of position.

“Master Lihaku,” Maomao said.

“Yeah?”

“If you were to picture this Shogi board as the capital, how would it look to you?” She turned the board so he could see it.

“Hmm... I guess this King piece would have to represent the throne. Which would mean...” He gestured at the clusters of pieces. “These places where the pieces are all bunched up would have to be the market or the merchant district, or maybe a residential area.”

“What about the Jade General, then?”

“Huh... Maybe an enemy? A political enemy? Or maybe that’s the house of a particularly powerful bureaucrat?” He didn’t sound very sure.

Yes! That would make sense!

Maomao looked at Chue. “Miss Chue, do you have a map of the western capital?”

“Ha ha!” Lihaku laughed. “You say the strangest things. Who would carry a—”

“Here you go!” Chue pulled a map, drawn on parchment, out of the folds of her robes.

“Why do you have that?!” Lihaku exclaimed, supplying the quip in lieu of the absent Lahan’s Brother.

“Because I’m Miss Chue!” she declared. Indeed, Maomao knew she was; that was why she’d asked. It turned out she’d been right to do so.

Maomao opened the map and compared it to the Shogi board. “You see the Jade General here? If you match it with the map of the western capital, doesn’t it look like it corresponds exactly to this annex?”

The others almost jumped. Everyone crowded around, looking from the map to the board and back.

The western capital, like the royal capital in the central region, had been laid out in a grid pattern, with distinct sectors. But the divisions weren’t as neat as the royal capital, so they’d missed the resemblance.

“Then that would make the King piece...”

“The administrative office or Master Gyokuen’s residence, perhaps. But I would guess the office. That’s the location of the mansion that the Yi clan occupied seventeen years ago,” Small Lin told them. It was so helpful to have a local around, someone who could fill them in on past events.

“That would explain all the dragons around here,” Maomao said. “If I remember correctly, there was a store with the word 
Dragon
 in its name.”

Actual dragon designs were supposed to be taboo to everyone except members of the Imperial family, but sometimes the word “dragon” would sneak into the name of a shop. It was considered to be good luck.

“What about these, then?” Chue asked, pointing to the two Pawns in a row.

“From the position, they seem to be along the main thoroughfare,” Maomao said.

“Maybe they represent a bookstore or a stationary shop? You know, somewhere you’d go to buy little things.”

“Hmm. Not sure I remember anyplace like that,” Lihaku muttered.

Piece by piece, Maomao tried to figure out what the Shogi tiles represented.

Then Chue said, “Miss Chue has a thought. Maybe a 
current
 map can’t help us.”

She was right. In seventeen years, shops could come and go, some businesses collapsing while other, new enterprises began.

“If you’ll pardon me, I can go get an old map! Please, look after my granduncle for a moment,” Small Lin said, getting to his feet. Big Lin was still sleeping.

“I’ll go call the Moon Prince, then. Lady Maomao, if you would look after Master Lakan, please,” Onsou said, also standing.

“Look after Big Lin, got it,” Maomao said.

“No! I need you to keep an eye on Master Lakan!” Onsou was distraught, but left anyway. Maomao and the others lost themselves in comparing the Shogi board and the modern map. The comparisons seemed to be going very well.

So well that all of them missed something crucial.