Chapter 3: Big Lin

The next day, Chue all but dragged Maomao to a big room somewhere in the annex. It had been strung with mosquito netting, and there was a thick carpet on the ground.

Very Anan-esque , Maomao thought. There were no tables, just a couple of low-set chairs. Tea and snacks had been set out on the carpet—not the finest stuff; the swarm had curtailed such luxuries. But beggars could not be choosers.

In the center of the room was a Shogi board. Staring intently at it was one filthy old fart Maomao recognized, and another she didn’t. The first fart was, of course, the freak strategist, but the second?

Must be his Shogi partner.

She’d heard the man was more than eighty years old. He must have been imposing in his day, but now he was hunched and his body shook visibly. A sturdy cane lay to his right, while behind him a middle-aged man, seemingly his caretaker, looked on with worry.

“I brought her!” Chue said with an enthusiastic raise of her hand. Maomao had, naturally, resisted the idea of coming here, but Chue had dragged her. Lihaku even accompanied them as her bodyguard.

The freak strategist looked up from the board. “Ma... Maom—” he began, but he was interrupted by what sounded like something striking a pillow. It was the cane, which had been pounded firmly into the carpet, so hard that Maomao feared it might have broken had it not been for the thick rug.

“We are in the middle of a game!” the other man bellowed, the force of his pronouncement shocking in light of his doddering appearance. Then he picked up one of his pieces and moved it forward, snapping it down with a perfect click .

The monocled freak narrowed his eyes and refocused on the board, sparing Maomao only a wave of his hand.

“Oooh, that was a nice move,” said Chue, who was at least pretending to pay attention.

“If you say so! It’s lost on me. You know what’s going on there, Miss Chue?” Lihaku asked with a friendly laugh.

“Oh, it just seemed like the thing to say. You know, what with the way he smacked that piece down.”

She didn’t have any idea what the move meant; she’d just said what felt right to her. As usual.

“Now, come on, Miss Maomao. Let’s get some of that tea! Miss Chue needs it if she’s going to have her snack.”

Maomao and the others sat on the carpet. Summer in the western capital was warmer than in the central region, but at least it wasn’t as humid. The mosquito netting was, in fact, grasshopper netting, as some of the bugs were still around.

You can feel the money , Maomao thought, running her fingers through the carpet. It was cool like silk but soft like wool, and had a delicately woven pattern as well as embroidery. Even the netting was made of silk gauze, which shifted and shimmered with each passing breeze.

Maomao sat in one of the low chairs and took a bun, a fried mandarin roll topped with condensed milk added.

I guess it doesn’t matter how fancy the carpet is. You can still get crumbs on it.

The strategist was stuffing his face as he played, consuming the snacks with such gusto that his long-suffering aide struggled to keep them supplied.

“Onsooou! You can do it!” Chue called to him.

Onsou? Is that his name? Maomao hadn’t heard it before—she’d never really had a reason to—and even if she had, she probably would have forgotten it. It seemed likely she’d see more of Onsou in the future, though, so she would have to try to remember.

“Ha ha! Ol’ Onsou. It’s not easy being him, is it?” said Lihaku, not sounding terribly concerned. As a fellow soldier, he seemed to recognize the man.

When Onsou saw Maomao, he commanded a nearby servant to prepare enough snacks to make up the shortfall. He was obviously used to this. Once he had deposited a sufficient quantity of sweets in front of the strategist, he came over to Maomao. “I’m terribly sorry. I know he’s always dropping in on you.” He bowed to her, profoundly apologetic. The angle of his bow was flawless; clearly, this wasn’t the first time he’d had to say sorry on the strategist’s behalf.

This is good material, here. The old madam would have killed for someone who could apologize like that. Onsou wasn’t young enough to be called a young man anymore, yet he knew how to be humble without looking pathetic or incompetent. Exactly the kind of person one needed when placating irate customers after some inexperienced courtesan had upset them. The real complainers, the ones who couldn’t be satisfied by a heartfelt apology, could always be thrown out on their ears by the menservants.

I wonder if he’d be interested in a new line of work. I could introduce him.

Being the official apologizer for a brothel wasn’t easy on the nerves, but it had to be better than being the freak strategist’s personal assistant.

Jinshi wasn’t there yet—maybe he wasn’t coming at all.

If he’s not careful, people might just get even more angry with him for being somewhere like this. At times of crisis such as the one they now faced, there was scant time for Shogi or banquets. This game was only being permitted because it was personally hosted by the freak strategist.

“Sure doesn’t look like this guy is a fraudster,” Maomao remarked. Anyone who could get the freak strategist to pay that much attention to a game of Shogi had to be quite the player themselves.

“No,” Onsou agreed. “That’s Big Lin, in the flesh.”

“‘Big Lin’... So is he famous or something?”

“Back in the day, they say Shogi players came from far and wide to play against him, even from the central region. He was that strong. If he hadn’t fallen on hard times, he’d probably be even more well-known now.”

“What happened?” Maomao asked, her interest piqued by the remark.

“Oh... Ahem. Well, since I’m sure I’d end up explaining it to you sooner or later, might as well get it out of the way. It’s related to that useful information that Master Lakan mentioned.” Onsou kept his voice down, mindful of the surly old man. “Big Lin was once a bureaucrat of some renown. He’s quite thoroughly versed in the history of the western capital.”

“I could believe it,” Maomao said. The years had perhaps made him less obviously charismatic, but his full-throated shout earlier had convinced her he was by no means gone.

“If I told you his fate was decided seventeen years ago, would you know what I meant?”

“You’re referring to the situation with the Yi clan?” Maomao’s eyes widened.

“Yes, exactly. The Yi trusted Big Lin implicitly, and even after he retired from official life, he continued to compile their history. When the Yi were wiped out, however, many officials found themselves caught in the purge—especially those the Yi had trusted most. Big Lin emerged with his life, but the successive shocks of those events pushed him into senility.”

“That is useful information,” Maomao said. It implied that Big Lin might well know things Maomao and Jinshi would be very eager to learn. Then, however, Maomao made a sound of confusion. “Hold on. You seem awfully familiar with the fall of the Yi yourself, Onsou. Even Master Gaoshun doesn’t know much about it.” She looked at him and narrowed her eyes.

“Oh, I’m sorry, you didn’t know? Their destruction took place at exactly the time Master Lakan was in residence at the western capital. I’ve heard the stories, that’s all.”

Maomao glowered at the freak strategist as he played Shogi. I
 haven’t.
 Then again, she had never asked—but still, the thought made her unreasonably angry.

“Master Lakan being who he is, of course, most of his recollections consist of Go halls and Shogi dojos. Given his tendency to forget anything not of personal interest to him, I’m not sure he can offer the kind of information the Moon Prince may be hoping for. In this particular case, I suspect he only remembers as much as he does because he finds Big Lin himself memorable.”

“Wouldn’t be surprised,” Maomao said. Asking the strategist detailed questions about the Yi would probably be futile, but they already knew that.

“If only Big Lin were still of sound mind, he could probably tell you a great deal about those times. From what I hear, he does have moments of lucidity...but only moments.”

“Moments,” Maomao repeated. She had, indeed, heard that people suffering from senility sometimes suddenly returned to their right minds. Onsou seemed to be suggesting that they should try to catch Big Lin during one of those spells.

“Indeed,” Onsou said. “Oh, Master Lakan is calling for me. I have to go. We can speak more about this later.” He bustled back over to the strategist—this time, the freak was out of juice.

Maomao peered around the large sitting room. She saw the freak strategist, Onsou, and Big Lin, along with Big Lin’s caretaker. Then there was herself, Chue, and Lihaku. Jinshi and his retinue were still nowhere to be seen.

Might not have a choice this time , Maomao thought. If Jinshi didn’t show up, she and the others would have to try to get the information themselves. It would be pointless to try anything, though, before the Shogi game was over, so she decided to get more snacks instead.

“Miss Maomao, this fried bread is the best!” Chue informed her.

“How many of those have you had, Miss Chue?”

“I’m checking them for poison,” she replied with a completely straight face.

“I can do that for myself, thank you.”

The snacks that had been provided were indeed very tasty, but the tragedy of it was that there was no wine at all. Yes, yes, there was a food shortage; they were lucky to be able to eat at all, etc. They would just have to suck it up and endure.

While the strategist was sipping his refilled juice, Onsou returned to the onlookers. “Perhaps you would take this,” he said, handing something to Maomao.

“What is it?” she asked.

He’d handed her a book. Made with parchment paper, it was a collection of short stories. She would have preferred an encyclopedia of medicinal herbs or maybe a medical treatise, but this wasn’t a bad choice either.

“I can bring you any other books you need as well. Or perhaps you’d prefer board games and cards?” Onsou said. He was being so helpful toward Maomao and the others, in fact, that she was starting to get suspicious.

“Thank you for your consideration, but we’ll be fine,” she said pointedly.

“I... Well... Are you quite sure about that?” Onsou seemed distinctly ill at ease. “Master Lakan and Big Lin began their game two hours ago, and...well.”

“Yes?”

“I think we can expect it to go on at least four hours more.”

“F-Four...hours...”

“You may wish to know that the Moon Prince was here just before you were, but he left again. He said he was quite busy with work. I’m supposed to call him when the game is over.”

For Jinshi, there was no such thing as free time. If working until the game was done was the sensible thing to do, why couldn’t Maomao leave too? There was plenty of medicine Dr. You had asked her to make.

“Do you think I could get out of here? You can call me when the game is over,” she said, collecting a tray of fruit and buns. They would make the quack doctor, lately beset by the woes of a snackless life, very happy.

“I’m sorry, but no. If you were to leave now, Master Lakan would lose his concentration. And if he were to make any...unorthodox moves, Big Lin would get tired and fall asleep.”

Argh! What a pain in the ass. Maomao did worry that, after another four hours of Shogi, the eighty-year-old man might simply keel over. One more reason I can’t leave...

She would have to stay and make sure that the old guy didn’t collapse. She compromised as best she could, having her mortar, pestle, and medicinal ingredients brought and mortar-ing away with Chue and Lihaku while the old men played.

Is that guy going to last? she wondered as she crushed some herbs and watched Big Lin, whose hand trembled every time he moved a piece. Once in a while, the man attending him would press some damp cotton to Big Lin’s lips. Other times, he would help Big Lin to his feet, then take him to the bathroom.

Looks like he’s used to nursing.

The other man must have been more than forty himself—a son, or perhaps more likely, a grandson. It looked like maybe Big Lin’s continued survival was thanks to this man’s patient ministrations.

When Onsou next came by to check on them, Maomao motioned him over. “Who’s the man with Big Lin?” she asked.

“Some extended relative. Big Lin has no more close family. Master Lakan always refers to him as Small Lin.”

“Small Lin?”

Small. That could certainly refer to a child, but just as often it meant someone who was small-hearted, a jerk. Even if the usage was simply a pair with “Big Lin,” it still wasn’t a particularly polite thing to call a person. In that respect, it was very much in character for the freak strategist.

So it went, precious time slipping through Maomao’s fingers.

After an hour, they had filled a tray with round pills. Onsou, who seemed less nervous around them than with the strategist, was hard at work helping them with the task. Maomao shook the tray to straighten out the rows—and at just that moment, Big Lin slumped over.

Shocked, Maomao rushed to the players.

“Oh! Maomao,” the freak strategist said with a grin. She shoved him aside, out of the way, and went to tend the other old man.

Before she could even reach him, though, someone shouted, “Nothing’s wrong!” It was Small Lin, who propped up Big Lin and leaned in as the old man began to whisper something.

“Yes... Yes,” Small Lin said. Maomao couldn’t hear what Big Lin was saying, but Small Lin was taking it down. Maomao took a peek, only to discover rows of writing whose meaning she couldn’t fathom.

At length Big Lin’s dictation seemed to end. Small Lin rubbed the man’s back gently and wetted his lips with the cotton rag.

“All finished, Small Lin?” the freak strategist asked with a glance at Maomao.

“He’s exhausted. We should let him rest,” Small Lin replied, evidently unbothered by the strategist’s tone. He laid the elderly man down gently, then began taking a record of the state of the game board.

“Caretaking’s not easy, huh?” said Chue as she grabbed another bun—this time from the strategist’s plate—and stuffed it into her mouth. She sounded totally indifferent on the subject. Maomao worried for Gaoshun and Taomei in their old age.

“Maomaaaooo!” cried a lilting voice. The strategist began to work his way over to her.

Maomao frowned in disgust. “Please don’t get any closer. You smell like a dog that’s been out in the rain.”

“Wow, that...really sounds hurtful when you just say it like that,” Lihaku remarked.

For better or worse, however, the personage involved was impervious to nearly anything Maomao might say. “I heard you like salty snacks, so I made sure to have lots and lots of them on hand! How about some wine? Would you like some? I can get it for you!”

“Wine...” Just for a second, Maomao felt something tug at her heart, but then she shook her head vigorously.

The scowl on her face must have been truly terrible, because Chue intervened. “If you’re offering, Miss Chue would love some specially made fruit wine! Also, because we do technically have a job to do here, maybe you could tell me about the old guy over there.”

Ah, Chue. Pleasure before business. From beside her, Lihaku could be heard to say, “The wine can wait, thanks.”

The strategist, meanwhile, looked at Chue, perplexed. “The Knight, you mean?”

He compared the man not to a Go stone, but a Shogi peace. In other words, this was someone who stood out to him as distinctive. He was, as ever, an astute judge of character if nothing else.

“If you want to know about my granduncle, please allow me to explain,” said Small Lin, walking up. Big Lin was snoozing comfortably.

Almost by instinct, everyone formed a loose circle around the snacks. Chue made tea and served it to the others. Maomao put individual plates in front of each of them, and meanwhile slid the various medicines and pharmaceutical tools to one side.