“May I ask what you’ve already heard about him?” Small Lin said, regarding Maomao and the others calmly. He might not look like much, but at least he knew how to be polite. Onsou had said his family had fallen on hard times, but he at least seemed to have had a respectable upbringing. He even spoke courteously to Maomao and Chue.

His granduncle, huh? Small Lin looked to be about forty years old. His hair was black, but looked temperamental, and his eyes were pale.

Big Lin has something of the look of a foreigner about him, himself. He had the angular nose people with foreign blood so often possessed, although his thinning hair and eyebrows were white—it was impossible to say what color they had once been. What hair he had was unkempt; maybe he didn’t like to tie it back.

It was unusual to see a man of Small Lin’s age taking such close care of a granduncle. Did he really have no other relatives?

“I’ve heard him referred to as a living encyclopedia of the history of the western capital,” said Onsou. The strategist, meanwhile, was trying to press snacks on Maomao, so Chue interposed herself between them. Evidently she still had space left in her stomach, for the treats disappeared quickly.

“Yes, people called him that once. But now he’s...well, you see. He was in full possession of all his faculties until the events of seventeen years ago.”

“You mean the suppression of the Yi clan, yes?” Onsou asked, helpfully making sure Maomao and the others could follow. Maomao was glad she’d gotten some of this story ahead of time.

He really knows how to get things done. Onsou wasn’t showy about it, but he gave a nudge here or a push there to keep things moving smoothly. He had obviously not been long in the service of a superior who only knew how to upset orders and thwart plans.

“Yes, that’s right. During the campaign, he was attacked and hit in just the wrong spot.” Small Lin lifted some of Big Lin’s thinning hair to reveal a prominent scar. “At the time, my granduncle had been charged with compiling a history of the western capital. When the Yi were subdued, however, he too was taken to be a rebel. Perhaps we can count ourselves lucky that at least the rest of his family escaped punishment.”

A wrinkle formed in Small Lin’s brow, a sign of how hard it was for him to recount these things.

“ Suppression is a very lofty-sounding word, but it was no more than a rampage. My granduncle was arrested, and they burned not only the history he had compiled, but all the books and scrolls upon which he based his work. When he finally came back to us months later, he was...like this. His closest relatives abandoned him. Only my father would take him in.”

Perhaps Big Lin’s symptoms were the result of seeing his life’s work confiscated and destroyed, or perhaps of simple violence. Being forsaken by his family might have been even worse.

“There was so much precious information in those records. To this day, I regret their destruction!” Small Lin pounded the carpet demonstratively.

Easy to burn things... Not so easy to un-burn them.

Maomao’s mind was still on the strange notes Small Lin had taken down as he listened to his granduncle. What did they mean? If he was trying to reconstruct the histories from the old man’s mumblings, it would be a tall order.

Onsou looked at Maomao as if to say that he was leaving the rest in her hands.

As for what the freak strategist was up to at that moment, his face had turned red and he was getting tipsy. He was holding a glass bottle. Maomao was trying to focus on the conversation, but she couldn’t avoid looking at him.

Looks like he mixed up his juice and the fruit wine. It was clear to her that the strategist had mistakenly drunk the wine Chue had wanted. Chue took the bottle from him, stuck out her tongue playfully, and then started drinking.

Come on, leave some for me! Maomao thought. She tried to send the message to Chue telepathically, but there didn’t seem to be much hope that it would reach her. Resigned, she turned back to Small Lin.

“What do we need to do to reach Big Lin’s memories, then?” she asked.

“My granduncle is a very careful person. For example, he would never have put all his books, which might so easily be burned, in one place. If you’re looking for records, I’m sure he’s hidden them somewhere.”

“Meaning you think he had another library besides the one that was burned?”

“Yes, I do.”

If Big Lin had kept copies of his books in another location, then the records might still exist. There was just one catch.

“If you haven’t found them, it means no one knows where they are.”

“That’s right. No one’s found this library. Even the idea that the books might all be there is simply a possibility.”

It was like clutching at mist—but at least the idea of a separate library had a ring of plausibility.

Maomao looked at the old man, who was breathing peacefully. The freak strategist truly was nothing but a thorn in her side—but every once in a while, he could be helpful.

“I suppose, then, that you take advantage of his moments of lucidity to attempt to find out where the library is,” she said. It would require someone with great patience to do such a thing.

“You really think you can find it that way?” Chue piped up, coming right out with what Maomao was trying to hint at.

Small Lin took a sip of his tea, as if unsure whether to say what he said next. Then he replied, “In fact, they’ve been found before.”

Maomao’s eyes went wide. “Really?”

“Indeed. I gather someone sought out the house my granduncle used to live in, based on the snatches of things he remembered. And when they found it...”

“Yes? What happened?”

“There they were! Game records my granduncle had secreted away long ago, hidden beneath the floorboards.”

“Game records,” Maomao repeated. Frankly, that sounded pretty worthless. “I’m guessing everyone was pretty disappointed. After all that searching and everything.”

It seemed possible that these relatives had taken Big Lin in partly because they thought there might be a legacy in it for them.

“Yes, most disappointed. I’m told they used the records for kindling in their oven.”

To think, those papers had probably been priceless treasures to Big Lin. Value was in the eye of the beholder, and it could make life so cruel.

“Gee, that seems like such a shame. They might even be worth something if they were still around,” said Chue, who was still sipping away at the wine. Seriously, she could at least leave a cup’s worth.

“You are so right,” Small Lin concurred. “Someone even came to me who wanted to sell those game records, once they heard how gifted my granduncle was at Shogi.”

“Sell them?” Maomao asked. There was a scheme that sounded familiar.

“Oh, yes. It seems that Go is all the rage in Kaou Province, and that there’s a very popular book featuring collected games. This person wondered if a book of Shogi games might meet with similar success.”

Maomao stole a glance at the old fart, who was now snoring placidly. Somehow the world continued to live in his shadow, though neither he nor the world knew it.

“His family was nearly frantic when they learned there might have been money in those games, but before they could figure out what to do, the swarm came... The family found out somewhere that Master Lakan was an old friend of my granduncle’s and, though I’m embarrassed to say it, they prevailed upon him to beg help.”

Small Lin was red up to his ears, humiliated even to tell the story. Maomao was well aware that there were some less than ideal families out there, but the more poverty-stricken you were the less sentimental you could be. If they had never fallen on hard times, they might have been a perfectly fine group of people. Maybe it was Maomao’s twisted personal viewpoint that made the devout, attentive Small Lin seem, in fact, the strangest of all.

“I think the rare pleasure of playing Shogi with Master Lakan has brought some of my granduncle’s spark back. I realize this may seem a rather impertinent request, but when the game is over, do you think the written records of it might be granted to us?”

“I guess I don’t see why not,” Maomao said. The freak strategist didn’t seem likely to care.

“Then, supposing that my granduncle’s mutterings lead to another hidden cache of papers or old game records?”

“We’ll give all the game records to you.”

“Lady Maomao,” Onsou said, visibly concerned.

“The freak strategist doesn’t have any special interest in records of old games, does he?” she asked.

“No, but if he 
were
 to say anything...”

“Just blame it on me.”

“I certainly shall!” Onsou had obviously just wanted to get a firm verbal commitment from Maomao. The man was thorough.

That left only the question, the crucial question, of where these books and papers might possibly be.

“Do you still have those things you wrote down earlier? Could we see them, perchance?” Maomao asked politely.

“Here. I also have all the notes I’ve made thus far,” Small Lin said. He produced a collection, not of sheets of paper or even wooden writing strips, but scraps of parchment.

“These look like game records too,” Maomao said, puzzled. The scraps contained inscriptions like “S59” and “+B83.” Even Maomao, who had no interest in Shogi whatsoever, recognized this as notation showing how the pieces in a Shogi match had moved. This notation involved foreign numerals not used in Kaou Province, perhaps for ease of reading.

Does this seriously mean anything? Maomao held back a groan. Instead she turned to Onsou and asked, “Do you have another Shogi board and some pieces we could borrow?” When you didn’t understand something, there was nothing better than to try it out.

Onsou furnished the materials, and with a 
click-click-click
, Maomao began to line up the pieces.

“Let’s see... S59 would be...” She tried to put the pieces where the notes indicated, but increasingly she suspected it was a futile endeavor. She was just about to place one of the Pawns when she stopped.

“Now, that’s funny,” Chue interjected, looking at the board. “It says that Pawn should move to row two.”

“Huh! Even I know that’s an illegal move.” Now Lihaku was getting in on the act.

“And there are three Dragons too. That’s not normal. Maybe not all of these notes relate to the same game,” Onsou said, peering at the board. “I wonder if this would make more sense to me if I knew more about Shogi.”

“You aren’t well-versed in the game, sir?” Maomao asked.

“I know how to play, more or less, but please remember whom I serve under. I’m not eager to turn a pastime into yet another job.” Onsou had a dead look in his eyes.

“Boy, I feel that!” Lihaku said, not looking much better.

“Why’s that, Master Lihaku? You don’t serve directly under the strategist... In fact, I don’t think you have much to do with him at all, do you?” Maomao asked. Lihaku was a soldier, true enough, but he saw far less of the freak strategist than Onsou did.

Instead of answering, Lihaku said, “Look at this outline. Doesn’t it remind you of a map of the capital?”

“The capital?”

“A city set in a perfect grid, with the throne at the top. It’s right there!”

“Ah... I think I see what you mean.”

In short, Lihaku couldn’t look at a Go board without seeing the capital. This being a Shogi setup, it’s not exactly the same, but still. She understood what he was getting at. As a soldier who spent much of his time guarding the royal city, he saw a lot of maps of the place.

“Let’s start by lining up all the pieces from the notes,” Maomao said. There followed a series of clicks as she put the pieces in place—but they turned out to be distinctly clustered in one part of the board. “Does this look like a Shogi game to you?”

“Not much of one,” Small Lin said. He seemed to be the most Shogi-capable person left awake, with Big Lin and the strategist both off in dreamland. It wasn’t clear how much Chue knew about the game, so Maomao would discount her opinion.

“If it’s not a Shogi game, what do you think it is?” Maomao asked, raising her hand in a gesture of total defeat.

“Yeah, the King piece is really flying around everywhere,” Lihaku said.

“Miss Chue had the same thought! That Jade General really gets around.”

Maomao agreed with her companions. The Jade General, which normally moved one slow square at a time, had worked its way all the way to the center of the board.

“Jade,” Maomao murmured, gazing at the board. “
Gyoku
.”

The King, the opposing leader, sat smack in the center on the northern side of the board. A number of other pieces likewise seemed oddly out of position.

“Master Lihaku,” Maomao said.

“Yeah?”

“If you were to picture this Shogi board as the capital, how would it look to you?” She turned the board so he could see it.

“Hmm... I guess this King piece would have to represent the throne. Which would mean...” He gestured at the clusters of pieces. “These places where the pieces are all bunched up would have to be the market or the merchant district, or maybe a residential area.”

“What about the Jade General, then?”

“Huh... Maybe an enemy? A political enemy? Or maybe that’s the house of a particularly powerful bureaucrat?” He didn’t sound very sure.

Yes! That would make sense!

Maomao looked at Chue. “Miss Chue, do you have a map of the western capital?”

“Ha ha!” Lihaku laughed. “You say the strangest things. Who would carry a—”

“Here you go!” Chue pulled a map, drawn on parchment, out of the folds of her robes.

“Why do you have that?!” Lihaku exclaimed, supplying the quip in lieu of the absent Lahan’s Brother.

“Because I’m Miss Chue!” she declared. Indeed, Maomao knew she was; that was why she’d asked. It turned out she’d been right to do so.

Maomao opened the map and compared it to the Shogi board. “You see the Jade General here? If you match it with the map of the western capital, doesn’t it look like it corresponds exactly to this annex?”

The others almost jumped. Everyone crowded around, looking from the map to the board and back.

The western capital, like the royal capital in the central region, had been laid out in a grid pattern, with distinct sectors. But the divisions weren’t as neat as the royal capital, so they’d missed the resemblance.

“Then that would make the King piece...”

“The administrative office or Master Gyokuen’s residence, perhaps. But I would guess the office. That’s the location of the mansion that the Yi clan occupied seventeen years ago,” Small Lin told them. It was so helpful to have a local around, someone who could fill them in on past events.

“That would explain all the dragons around here,” Maomao said. “If I remember correctly, there was a store with the word 
Dragon
 in its name.”

Actual dragon designs were supposed to be taboo to everyone except members of the Imperial family, but sometimes the word “dragon” would sneak into the name of a shop. It was considered to be good luck.

“What about these, then?” Chue asked, pointing to the two Pawns in a row.

“From the position, they seem to be along the main thoroughfare,” Maomao said.

“Maybe they represent a bookstore or a stationary shop? You know, somewhere you’d go to buy little things.”

“Hmm. Not sure I remember anyplace like that,” Lihaku muttered.

Piece by piece, Maomao tried to figure out what the Shogi tiles represented.

Then Chue said, “Miss Chue has a thought. Maybe a 
current
 map can’t help us.”

She was right. In seventeen years, shops could come and go, some businesses collapsing while other, new enterprises began.

“If you’ll pardon me, I can go get an old map! Please, look after my granduncle for a moment,” Small Lin said, getting to his feet. Big Lin was still sleeping.

“I’ll go call the Moon Prince, then. Lady Maomao, if you would look after Master Lakan, please,” Onsou said, also standing.

“Look after Big Lin, got it,” Maomao said.

“No! I need you to keep an eye on Master Lakan!” Onsou was distraught, but left anyway. Maomao and the others lost themselves in comparing the Shogi board and the modern map. The comparisons seemed to be going very well.

So well that all of them missed something crucial.