“Well, yes. Maomao, I don’t really know the difference between good people and bad, he just strikes me as a liar.”

“Well, what’s it got to do with me?”

Ah, yes. There was the strategist she knew.

Everyone else in the room sat in stunned silence. Then a hesitant voice came from the entrance. “Ahem. Pardon me for interrupting when you’re in conference...” Judging by his uniform, the newcomer was one of the freak strategist’s subordinates.

“Yes? What is it?” asked not the freak, but Onsou.

“There seems to be someone at the administrative office who claims to be looking for a missing member of their family.” The soldier stole a glance at Big Lin, who was still sleeping in a corner of the room. “His description matches that of an old man dragged here by Master Lakan yesterday...”

The silence grew even more stunned, and then another soldier appeared at the door. “Master Lakan, there’s been a fire at the west shrine. I’ve already dispatched a firefighting squad to take care of it.”

The freak’s subordinates really were all highly capable people. They didn’t even need their boss to tell them to do what was appropriate and necessary.

The missing family member was Big Lin. The burning shrine was the one they had just concluded would be worth investigating.

It was almost 
satisfying
, in its own perverse way, to have been so thoroughly played.

Nobody knew who had set these events in motion. At the moment, all they knew was that whoever it was, they seemed to be two steps ahead.

They relocated their conference to Jinshi’s chambers, where the three of them—Maomao, Chue, and Lihaku—now knelt meekly. They’d thought the freak strategist might follow them, but Big Lin had woken up from his nap, so the Shogi game had resumed.

“I can only offer my humblest apologies,” Maomao said. She and the others had their heads pressed to the ground in abject apology, and Chue was even dressed in a white robe as if prepared to disembowel herself at any moment.

“Er, Chue... There will be no need for that,” Jinshi said. With evident relief, Chue promptly changed back.

In short, “Small Lin” didn’t exist. There was a man who claimed to be a relative of Big Lin’s, but he was a different person, someone who didn’t look all that much like Small Lin.

“Small Lin” kidnapped Big Lin during the insect swarm, then took advantage of the fact that Big Lin isn’t coherent to pose as a relative to try to get close to the freak strategist.

He’d certainly pulled the wool over Maomao’s, and everyone else’s, eyes. He was such a diligent caretaker to Big Lin that he looked like he’d been doing it for a long time. What was worse, he seemed to be aware of the strategist’s ability to see through lies, and he knew that as long as the old fart had a worthy opponent to play Shogi with, he would focus on that instead of on Small Lin’s deception.

If he hadn’t known about the special qualities that creature possessed, then he had been extraordinarily lucky—and if he had, then he was a master tactician himself.

Big Lin was now with his real family. The man who had come asking after him had been accompanied by a young woman—his wife or daughter, perhaps—who was Big Lin’s actual nurse. Maomao and company were glad to discover that Big Lin hadn’t been abused and abandoned the way Small Lin had described, but judging by the state of the visitors’ clothing, the part about the family falling on hard times had been true.

They were with Big Lin now, keeping an eye on him as he played Shogi.

Maomao was frustrated. She knew that having the freak strategist around would only see them veering off topic at every opportunity. She intended to explain the situation to Jinshi, thoroughly and completely, and only then bring in the strategist to get his story.

If the old fart would’ve just told us , she thought, but there was no predicting what he’d do. She wasn’t even sure what it was that had tipped him off that Small Lin was a villain. He had done a superb job of looking completely harmless.

He took such convincing care of Big Lin. I wonder if he actually does have nursing experience. Otherwise, it would be hard to explain how he had deceived all of them so completely. If it was just a performance, it was a very good one. Even Chue had been taken in—not something Maomao would have expected, even if someone managed to trick herself and Lihaku.

“He even fooled you, Chue?” Jinshi asked.

“Yes, and I’m so embarrassed! In my family home, a little beating wouldn’t be enough to make up for a screwup like this!” She mimed copious weeping.

Is Chue’s family that ruthless? Maomao wondered. She’d assumed it must have been a very laissez-faire place to produce a free spirit like Chue—but that was all it had been. An assumption.

“What’s done is done,” Jinshi said. “But please, describe this person to me.”

“You didn’t see him, Master Jinshi?” Maomao asked.

“Only a glimpse of his face. I had a visitor and had to come straight back to my room.”

Ahh...

“Yeah, great.”

“Spies?”