Fair enough—the Emperor’s younger brother wouldn’t normally stand around and chat with a random commoner.

“Yes. When I mentioned that Sir Lakan was about, the man looked slightly ill and went home. Apparently Sir Lakan and Vice Minister Lu don’t entirely get along. The vice minister was advising me on what we should do about the ceremonies we had planned for this visit.”

Is there anyone who 
does
 get along with the old fart?
 Who really knew how to cope with the monocled freak?

“I want to know everything about this man. How he acted, what he was like,” Jinshi said—not to Maomao, but to Chue.

“Yes, sir. He was a completely and totally normal man. His facial features suggested a hint of foreign blood, but otherwise, he had no distinguishing characteristics at all. Maybe it would help if I described him as being a lot like Lahan’s Brother?”

Maomao thought that actually made sense. No wonder this guy had been able to blend in so readily. He wasn’t given to outbursts like Lahan’s Brother was, but he shared the other man’s ability to just go about his business, never really standing out. And they had the exact same quality of put-upon-ness.

“One thing about them really stands out,” Maomao said.

“Oh yes, for sure,” Chue said.

Then they chorused: “The way you can’t seem to remember their faces!”

“I will try, though!” Chue said. “I’ll see if I can do a likeness.” She immediately produced a brush and started painting, and soon had a portrait that captured Small Lin’s salient characteristic of having no real salient characteristics. Maomao assumed the portrait would be shown to Big Lin’s family.

“All right. And what kind of man do you think he was? You can give me your personal opinions; I’ll take anything.” This time, Jinshi’s gaze took in Maomao and Lihaku as well.

“If I may, then, sir,” Lihaku said. “I mostly agree with Miss Chue. This guy was totally ordinary. But he also seemed to really know what he was doing with Big Lin.”

“He was accustomed to his role, you mean? Was his performance really that good?”

“It was more than that. It’s like, I’m not sure most people would know how to work that well with an old guy. You don’t usually think of men taking care of their elderly relatives anyway, right? It’s usually their wife or sister.”

Maomao nodded. In Li, men stood above women in the social hierarchy. The impulse only seemed stronger here in I-sei Province, where women or brides were frequently viewed as nothing more than tools. Witness the fact that it wasn’t the man who’d come looking for Big Lin who was caring for him, but the woman he’d brought with him.

“And what do you think, Maomao?”

“I agree with the others. However, if he has indeed been searching for Big Lin’s old letters and papers the way we are, then I think we can assume he’s been doing it far longer than we have.” Either Small Lin himself, or perhaps a compatriot, had been staking out Big Lin.

“Yes, that would be reasonable,” said Jinshi.

He didn’t seem to be actively searching for the cache so much as keeping watch to see if anyone else would find it. It seemed like an awfully roundabout way to get what he claimed to want. If nobody found the papers, fine. Small Lin just didn’t want them discovered.

“Do you think it’s safe to assume that there was something so damaging in those materials that he wanted to eliminate them, even if it carried a considerable risk?” Maomao asked.

“To the point of deliberately making contact with Sir Lakan?”

“When you can’t predict what someone is going to do, when they finally do act, it can be earth-shattering.”

“Ahh.” Jinshi nodded quickly. Lakan did have a gift for jinxing things.

So whatever it is, he doesn’t want it to be found. Secret accounts, maybe? No, wait. What would that have to do with the compiling of a history?

“I wonder what could be worth that kind of risk,” Lihaku said.

“Maybe it has to do with the Yi rebellion,” Chue suggested.

“If he doesn’t want it to be found, then I think it’s safe to figure that whatever’s in there isn’t something he 
wants
 to know, but something he 
already
 knows,” said Maomao.

If he went out of his way to burn the library, it must really be something he doesn’t want getting out. Maomao found herself pondering why Small Lin might have deliberately set fire to the books. Hadn’t he considered the possibility that the destruction might not be complete if Maomao and the others came right away?

What if he only 
pretended
 to burn them?

If the books were burned, their pursuers might give up—but they might also try desperately to decode any remaining fragments of text. There were no guarantees that fire would consume everything, after all.

What if he only absconded with what he needed?

What was it that Small Lin needed, then? Maomao thought about it so hard that her head started to spin.

Her thoughts were interrupted when the door flew open. “Maomao! I wooon!”

If only he’d warned them about Small Lin like a normal person would have... But no, it was no use being angry. The freak strategist had told her that he hadn’t said anything about Small Lin being a bad guy because no one had asked him. Well, she would try asking him a few things, then.

“How did you know that man was a charlatan?”

“Because watching him was like watching an interesting play.”

Maomao stopped. No, she still had no idea what anything he said meant. What would Lakan know about watching a play? The performers would all look like Go stones to him.

“Everyone on the stage is lying, but some of the performers are better at it than others. The more natural the falsehoods are, the more interesting the play is,” the strategist said.

“The more natural, the more interesting...”

It made a certain kind of sense to her. A play was something fundamentally untrue, and the actors people who specialized in delivering these untruths to the audience. The better liars they were, the better performers they made, and the more engaging the drama was. The idea that someone might be a liar and a villain because watching them gave the sense of watching a good stage play was the sort of conclusion only the freak strategist could have come up with.

“Ahhh. Yeah, that sort of makes sense,” Chue said as it clicked for her. Maybe it made sense because she, like the strategist, lived by her intuition.

“Does it? Maybe you could explain it to me,” Maomao said.

“Yes, of course, Miss Chue’s explanation incoming! This was someone who wasn’t playing a part—they’d become that part. You see it sometimes, among con artists and spies.”

“Oh yes! Some agents even marry a local so that they won’t be suspected when they enter another country. But that spouse, you see them every single day. The spy has to be a true husband or wife to them. They can’t just act like it, they have to be it. The only thing is that there’s something more important to them than their partner. Some spies might even have kids! As long as no one finds out what they are, their family will never know the difference.”

Talk about ignorance being bliss. Chue’s description was awfully full of...concrete details, though. It almost seemed to suggest...no. In any case, the point was that Small Lin had, for all intents and purposes, become a real member of Big Lin’s family.

“Say, Maomao, why don’t we have dinner together?” the freak strategist said. He still looked relaxed and very pleased with himself, totally oblivious to the mood in the room. From behind him, Big Lin’s real relative was watching them. He did indeed look like he was living a hard life—almost everything Small Lin had told them appeared to be the truth, except for his own identity. Onsou gave the man some money on behalf of his master.

Then he said to the strategist, “Master Lakan, you already have a dinner engagement with Master Gyoku-ou. And we need to spend the time until then getting through some work.”

Yes, this man was indeed a hard worker.

“Aww, I don’t wanna!” the old fart moaned. Pathetic. He wrapped himself around a post and refused to move as Onsou tried to drag him away. Children throwing tantrums comported themselves with more dignity.

“Miss Maomao, a word from you would be helpful here. Tell him ‘Have fun!’ or something.”

“I don’t want to, Miss Chue.”

“Would you rather he stay here, Miss Maomao?”

Maomao scowled and managed to choke out “Have fun” in the quietest possible voice.

The strategist’s face lit up. “I will! I will have fun!”

Maomao watched Onsou begin to lead him away. “Just one more question,” she said before he was out of earshot.

“Yes? What is it? You can ask your daddy anything!”

She really, really wanted to smash that monocle, but she forced herself to ignore the urge. “How does Master Gyoku-ou look to you?”

She felt like the answer to this one question held the key to everything. Even Jinshi swallowed heavily, wondering what the strategist would say.

But what he said was: “Gyoku-ou? Who’s that?”

“The man you’re having dinner with tonight! The one who keeps you swimming in fruit juice!” Maomao said.

“Ohh! Him,” the freak said, clapping his hands. “I think he must have wanted to be an actor. He seems like he’s smack on his way to becoming a hero.”

“Huh?” Maomao started to feel like she was wasting her time with this line of questioning. A hero in this case was a male stage role, usually a warrior or sometimes a chivalrous gambler.

Maomao only found herself with even more questions than before; she started to feel the mental equivalent of indigestion. It didn’t help when Chue said, “Miss Maomao, maybe it’s about time you let yourself get a little closer to Master Lakan. You would know it was all calculated, but you could be a little nicer.”

“I think the moment either of us got any closer than we already are, he’d never leave me alone, and then neither of us would get any work done. Is that what you want?”

“Oh! Yes. Your point is taken.” Chue clapped her hands, but it looked like an act. Maomao could only give the lighthearted lady-in-waiting a scowl nearly as grim as the one she’d fixed on the strategist.