Anyway, if Maomao wrote anything to him, it was likely to be no more than instructions on things she wanted him to procure. He was more concerned that he hadn’t received any letters from Rikuson. If communications had ceased after the swarm struck, he could understand, but the letters had stopped coming months before that.

“I seriously doubt she has time to be writing letters given how chaotic it must be. And if she does, there must be more important people to write to than some tangential busybody like me.” Lahan started counting the days since the swarm. “We’re twenty days after a major catastrophe. Or, one might say, only twenty days. Even under normal circumstances, getting a letter between the western capital and here takes two solid weeks. It’s not that strange if we haven’t heard from her yet, is it?”

“Yes, and I guarantee you a mere court lady doesn’t have access to the same communications network as the Imperial family and the most important administrators. What, you think they’re going to send a post-horse with this anonymous girl’s message? Priorities, priorities.”

Yao was silent at that. Lahan realized that maybe he’d been a bit harsh, but he didn’t intend to change tack. He would be happy for these two to regard him as their friend’s kindly older brother, but he wouldn’t let it cause him to mix personal and public business.

En’en, at least, must understand that even if Lahan could have supplied them with information, there would be nothing much they could do with it. If it had been just her, he might have told her everything he knew. But unlike En’en, Yao was still maturing emotionally. He didn’t want her to do something rash because he had foolishly given her too many details. It was for the best—the best for Yao—that he didn’t tell her anything.

Lahan wasn’t doing this merely to torment her. He was simply stating the truth—it merely had the unfortunate side effect of seeming like an attack. It still caused En’en to give him a don’t-bully-my-mistress glare. Her right cheek had risen by three millimeters and had developed a slight twitch.

This, in Lahan’s opinion, was what made young ladies such trouble to deal with. It was why he only spent his time with older women—for better or worse, they had been around long enough to know how to comport themselves.

By that metric, he and his younger sister Maomao should have gotten along very well, but every time they saw each other, his toes only seemed to end up ever more grievously injured. He’d recently ordered special shoes made with steel in the toes to protect himself. They seemed perfect for craftsmen who used heavy materials, or workers who carried heavy objects, and he was already considering whether they might make a viable commercial product.

They were only going to lose more time if Yao continued to sit there stewing, so Lahan thought of something he knew she liked. “Perhaps you’d take some hasma home with you? Just a little souvenir. I got it from a friend, but there’s far too much for me to eat by myself. I could use the help. Look, it’s dark out. I’ll call you a carriage.” He let his tone become a bit more friendly as he delicately urged them to go home.

As one, Lahan and En’en responded, “What?” They both looked thoroughly shocked.

“Y-Young mistress, what do you mean by that?” En’en asked.

“Exactly what I said. We’ve stayed here before, haven’t we?”

“Well, yes, but that was on the pretense of a nice, long vacation...” The right shoulder of Yao’s rational-minded servant lowered by six millimeters; she was concerned.

“I haven’t read all the medical books in this house yet. I’m not going home until I have,” Yao said.

“You could just borrow them and take a few with you!” En’en replied, now openly horrified.

Even Lahan was starting to feel tense. Why did Yao suddenly want to stay overnight at his house? Was she trying to get him back for not giving her any information? No, she didn’t sound like she was doing this maliciously. There would be more murkiness in her voice if she were.

“I let you stay here last time because there were special circumstances,” Lahan said. “Maomao helped sell the pretext too. But this time is different. Much as I wish to extend kindness to a couple of young ladies, I won’t allow myself to be merely a convenient tool.”

He tried to be a gentleman, yes, but he was not going to simply let himself be taken advantage of. He wasn’t trying to get something in exchange—but those who ravenously devoured whatever they could were decidedly not beautiful.

There was a pause, then Yao said, “You think I’m just a selfish child making silly demands.”

Lahan didn’t say anything, didn’t say yes or no, but the smile that crept across his face should have told them everything. Selfishness—with no hint of the sweet child—he had plenty of from his biological mother; and temper, his grandfather was enough for that.

“I can see you don’t think much of me, Master Lahan,” Yao said. “You think women just get what they want from men by being coy and demanding.”

“No, they don’t. Believe it or not, I have something to bargain with.”

“What would that be?” Lahan blinked exactly three times.

“You know my uncle, don’t you?”

“Yes, I should say that I do. Vice Minister Lu, isn’t it?”

Lahan had looked into Yao’s and En’en’s backgrounds the last time they had stayed at his house. He had learned about Yao’s uncle, an important member of the Board of Rites. He knew that Vice Minister Lu had spent much of his life going from one department to another, and that he was a sharp man.

“I believe he’s in the western capital at the moment, isn’t he?” Lahan asked.

The Board of Rites was in charge of religious observances and diplomacy, and the Moon Prince would need someone with him in the western capital to help conduct religious ceremonies. No mid-level functionary would do; it had to be a high-ranking member of the board.

“Do you know 
why
 my uncle was obliged to go to the western capital?” Yao asked.

“In order to help the Moon Prince conduct any necessary observances there, I presume. Not to mention that it would be helpful, in a land as close to our borders as I-sei Province, to have someone knowledgeable about diplomacy along.”

“Both those things are true. But what if I told you that he went for the same reason as Dr. You?”

“That would tell me nothing.”

Lahan had no acquaintance with Dr. You, so he didn’t know what connection he might share with Vice Minister Lu. The only thing he knew about the good doctor was that he was among those who had gone to the western capital.

“My uncle lived in the western capital once, when he was younger. He only returned here to assume the family headship when my father died,” Yao said.

Lahan was careful not to let his expression shift. As a way of getting his attention, it wasn’t bad, not bad at all. Yao wanted him to realize that her connection with her uncle allowed her to know something important that he didn’t.

Lahan was Lakan’s adopted son, and outwardly he was a member of no particular political faction. With an eye on the future, though, he could very much see himself becoming a backer of the Emperor’s younger brother. If there was information to be had that would be of benefit to the Moon Prince, Lahan was very interested in acquiring it. But he would have to probe the matter a little more.

“I grant you have a blood relation with Vice Minister Lu, but so what? I can’t imagine a man as important as the vice minister would simply let crucial matters of state slip to anyone, even his niece.”

“Young mistress, I think it’s time we gave this up,” En’en said, distraught. Much as she adored her “young mistress,” she could see that Lahan was right.

Yao, however, ignored her. She said only one word: “Coal.”

“Coal?” Lahan repeated, trying to contextualize it, figure out exactly what significance the word held. “You mean, the rock that comes from the ground?” His eyes widened.

Yao grinned. En’en looked very confused. Apparently there were things even Yao’s omnicapable lady-in-waiting didn’t know.

“Yes, that’s it. They can mine it in the western capital.”

“They can , yes, I’ve heard that. But they don’t, because at the moment they have no use...for it...” Lahan trailed off. Coal was a charcoalized stone that burned readily despite being a rock. It produced a great deal of ash, however, and considering the time and trouble involved in getting it out of the ground, firewood and charcoal had always been seen as better alternatives—supposedly.

“My uncle was investigating the western capital’s coal. Yes, he is a capable man, but even the most brilliant minister might slip up in a moment of weakness. Say, for example, when his dead brother’s daughter had been weeping her eyes out, and he had finally comforted her and gotten her to sleep. He might speak of such a thing, never knowing that she was listening.”

Yao chuckled and looked at Lahan triumphantly.

“In other words, you were sleepy, your memories hazy. Such information would hardly be credible,” Lahan replied.

That brought Yao up short.

En’en, meanwhile, raised her hand. “Master Lahan,” she said. She drew in her chin by three centimeters, and the way she couldn’t decide where to look betrayed her hesitation. Nonetheless, she said, “Master Lu went to the western capital before the former emperor met his end, before the demise of the former emperor and the empress dowager, whom they called the empress regnant. Given what happened, then and after, wouldn’t it make sense if Master Lu had gone to investigate something?”

Lahan opened his eyes twenty percent wider than usual. He’d assumed that even if En’en knew something, she would stay quiet about it. But it seemed that seeing Yao cowed by Lahan’s attitude had been more than she could bear. En’en was a substantially more competent negotiator than Yao, but in the end, swayed by her love for her mistress, she couldn’t help saying something.

“That’s what you think Vice Minister Lu was up to?” Lahan asked.

The vice minister was forty years old. Granted, he had begun his court service under the former emperor, but a man as smart as he was would have known what to do when confronted with the choice between continuing to serve the reigning sovereign, a puppet of the empress regnant with scant life left to live, or to align himself with the heir apparent.

Like Lahan, he would have asked himself what he could do to help give the prince a freer hand at court. It didn’t take any calculations to see what would happen when the new ruler took over power from an empress regnant who had conducted puppet politics for so long. Ministers gorged on power sometimes acted as if they had forgotten there was a court hierarchy at all.

The prince—the man who now sat on the throne as Emperor—was well aware of the dangers, and had taken measures to neutralize them. The reason Lahan could say this with confidence and not as a rumor was because his honored father Lakan had lent the sovereign-to-be his aid at the time.

Lakan hadn’t hesitated to chase his own father and half-brother out in order to secure power. At the same time, he had seen to it that several hostile administrators received punitive postings to distant lands. To Lakan, even the Emperor no doubt looked like a game piece, a King.

Lahan had played his part in all this. At the time, though, he’d been so absorbed in solving the puzzle he’d been given, breaking the code, that he hadn’t stopped to think what it all meant. Looking back on it now, he wished he had kept a diary or something; then he might have been able to go back and make a comparison.

“Hrm.” He was torn. For once, he wasn’t sure what to do.

He wasn’t looking for one hundred percent confidence in the information. If it seemed even remotely likely to be useful, then he ought to try to get it. Even if the odds were, say, less than eleven percent.

Whatever the veracity of the information might be, now that he had been given the hint, “coal,” he would need to investigate. But insofar as this information warranted investigating, to throw Yao and En’en out of his house now would be to owe them something later.

At the moment, all Yao wanted was to stay here. She wasn’t even asking him for all the details about the western capital.

Part of him thought, would it really be so bad to let her stay? Yet at the same time, he harbored an anxiety he couldn’t give a name to. It was just a feeling, something too faint yet to quantify in numbers.

And Lahan decided to ignore it.

“Very well. If this annex suits you, you may stay here. However, that’s all that I’m offering. I will not provide you with any information that might be in violation of my professional duties.”

“Y-You mean it? We can stay?” Yao asked, her face growing thirty percent more cheerful than usual. En’en, by contrast, was fifty-five percent relieved and forty percent uneasy—while the remaining five percent was devoted to glowering at Lahan.

Why would she give him such a scathing look? Lahan felt very much the innocent victim here.

Later, Lahan would learn the true meaning of En’en’s glare, and he would have further cause to regret allowing Yao to stay in his home—but he couldn’t know that now. Not at this stage.