“Maybe so. Maybe so.” Lahan laughed—but he was glad that he was of a persuasion to find this engaging. To be paralyzed at the crucial moment, when something must be done, was not beautiful. Was it such a bad thing, when confronted with a disorganized pile of numbers, not to despair, but to find meaning in building order out of the chaos?

Come evening, Colleague No. 2 was indeed doing overtime of his own volition. Lahan, however, went home. Without his honored father Lakan around, it was his job to see to the safety of the La household. To that end, he required plenty of rest. Getting fewer than seven hours of sleep per night decreased his reaction speed by ten percent.

Standing by the gate of the house were two of his honored younger sister’s colleagues, a pair of young women.

Lahan adjusted his glasses just before they had the chance to slide off his nose and greeted the lovely young ladies with a smile. “Yao. En’en. Whatever seems to be the matter?”

The other girl was En’en, age twenty. The same as Lahan’s honored younger sister, Maomao. A warning was written on her face: if he tried anything funny with Yao, she would end him.

“Whatever is the matter, indeed! I asked you to inform us if you knew anything about what was going on in the western capital, but you sent no word at all!” Yao said.

“Yes, I did say I would tell you, didn’t I?” That was if he knew anything, but as no subsequent reports had yet arrived, he didn’t feel he had anything he could say. Certainly, he had no obligation to give every detail to a couple of court ladies from a completely separate department. The number one impropriety among bureaucrats at court was horning in on someone else’s territory—but the number two impropriety was leaking information because of a woman. The mixing of public and private business was never beautiful, no matter whom you did it for.

Nonetheless, the fact remained that Lahan was standing outside his house being yelled at by two young women. It wouldn’t look good, whatever the circumstances. Lahan gave at least the outward impression of being pure and decent with women. No scandalous talk on the matter touched him, nor for that matter his father, notwithstanding the time the old man had bought out a courtesan a few years earlier.

If anything, Lahan wasn’t so much worried for himself—he was afraid unseemly rumors would start about Yao or En’en.

“You must pardon me, but perhaps we could talk inside?” he said.

“Young mistress,” En’en said urgingly to Yao.

Finally Yao said, “All right.”

Lahan led them through the mansion toward the annex. On the way, he spotted the three children his father had picked up. One stopped working and bowed to him, then the others followed suit.

“Perfect timing. Si, Wu, Liu. Get tea implements and hot water from the kitchen and bring them to the annex, won’t you? Count to ten while you’re dispensing the hot water. Use the cart to bring it over—we can’t have you burning yourselves.”

“Yes, sir,” said Si, whose name meant “Four,” as the others meant “Five” and “Six,” respectively. The other two just nodded vacantly. Lahan’s honored father couldn’t remember names particularly well, so he called the children by successive numbers. Mostly Lahan used their actual names, but these three had come from an environment where the numbers were preferable to their real names.

Si’s predecessors Yi and Er—“One” and “Two”—had become soldiers, while San—“Three”—proved adept with sums and had stayed on at the house as help. Lahan had San purchasing trade goods and keeping an eye on the markets, and expected that in due course the child would become his right hand. It was thanks to San that things were running smoothly even with Lakan away and Lahan busy with extra work because of the swarm.

Lahan showed his visitors to the annex. En’en asked if she could help with anything, but he politely declined and told them to sit and read a book for a few minutes.

His insistence on treating them as guests was born of a refusal to cede the initiative to them.

“Master Lahan, I brought the tea,” said Si.

“Thank you.”

She’d even remembered to include snacks. He took three of the baked treats and gave one to each of the children. Then he steeped the tea himself—the household employed a minimum of servants.

“That’s quite lovely,” Yao said earnestly when she tasted the drink. En’en, though, looked less satisfied. Lahan was always precise about the amount, time, and temperature when he made tea, but a professional like En’en seemed to be looking for something else.

“Let’s get right to the point,” Lahan said, setting down his cup. “To be completely frank, I don’t have any precise information I can share with you about the insect plague in the western capital.”

“Really?” Yao asked.

“It’s true. The scale of the devastation is easy enough to guess from the quantity of provisions they’re requesting. This doesn’t look like it’s going to be a short-term thing—they’ll need repeated infusions of support if there’s not to be widespread famine.”

If they did nothing, tens of thousands of people might starve to death, and if that precipitated civil unrest, many more than that might be killed or injured.

It couldn’t have been easy for a young woman brought up in the cushy life of the capital to understand what famine meant. Even to Lahan it was a somewhat remote word. He had been in debt up to his neck, but he had never faced starvation.

Famine was not beautiful. A starving man or woman, no matter how handsome or lovely they might once have been, would waste away to a dry husk, muscles and fat withering, siphoned off by hunger. Lahan had no love for withered things; even the proudest spirit that had once resided in the most beautiful body could be reduced to a ghost driven mad with hunger.

Some claimed that there were those who, though poverty-stricken, were beautiful of heart—but such people were probably just insane. Lahan wanted the world to overflow with beautiful things, and especially wanted to be surrounded by them himself. He spared no effort in achieving this desire.

“All right, well, maybe you can tell me this: Is Maomao safe?” Yao asked.

“I haven’t had word from Maomao,” he replied.

No, no word at all. But his father (or rather, judging by the handwriting, his subordinate) had written him a letter describing the current situation in brief, and it made no mention of Maomao. Lahan took that to mean she was all right.

“Word of the swarm arrived more than ten days ago!”

Yao clenched her fists. She understood what he was saying intellectually, but her heart was still catching up.

But Yao said, “Let us stay here. Please.”

“And don’t they?” he replied without thinking.