“My uncle lived in the western capital once, when he was younger. He only returned here to assume the family headship when my father died,” Yao said.

Lahan was careful not to let his expression shift. As a way of getting his attention, it wasn’t bad, not bad at all. Yao wanted him to realize that her connection with her uncle allowed her to know something important that he didn’t.

Lahan was Lakan’s adopted son, and outwardly he was a member of no particular political faction. With an eye on the future, though, he could very much see himself becoming a backer of the Emperor’s younger brother. If there was information to be had that would be of benefit to the Moon Prince, Lahan was very interested in acquiring it. But he would have to probe the matter a little more.

“I grant you have a blood relation with Vice Minister Lu, but so what? I can’t imagine a man as important as the vice minister would simply let crucial matters of state slip to anyone, even his niece.”

“Young mistress, I think it’s time we gave this up,” En’en said, distraught. Much as she adored her “young mistress,” she could see that Lahan was right.

Yao, however, ignored her. She said only one word: “Coal.”

“Coal?” Lahan repeated, trying to contextualize it, figure out exactly what significance the word held. “You mean, the rock that comes from the ground?” His eyes widened.

Yao grinned. En’en looked very confused. Apparently there were things even Yao’s omnicapable lady-in-waiting didn’t know.

“Yes, that’s it. They can mine it in the western capital.”

“They can , yes, I’ve heard that. But they don’t, because at the moment they have no use...for it...” Lahan trailed off. Coal was a charcoalized stone that burned readily despite being a rock. It produced a great deal of ash, however, and considering the time and trouble involved in getting it out of the ground, firewood and charcoal had always been seen as better alternatives—supposedly.

“My uncle was investigating the western capital’s coal. Yes, he is a capable man, but even the most brilliant minister might slip up in a moment of weakness. Say, for example, when his dead brother’s daughter had been weeping her eyes out, and he had finally comforted her and gotten her to sleep. He might speak of such a thing, never knowing that she was listening.”

Yao chuckled and looked at Lahan triumphantly.

“In other words, you were sleepy, your memories hazy. Such information would hardly be credible,” Lahan replied.

En’en, meanwhile, raised her hand. “Master Lahan,” she said. She drew in her chin by three centimeters, and the way she couldn’t decide where to look betrayed her hesitation. Nonetheless, she said, “Master Lu went to the western capital before the former emperor met his end, before the demise of the former emperor and the empress dowager, whom they called the empress regnant. Given what happened, then and after, wouldn’t it make sense if Master Lu had gone to investigate something?”

Lahan opened his eyes twenty percent wider than usual. He’d assumed that even if En’en knew something, she would stay quiet about it. But it seemed that seeing Yao cowed by Lahan’s attitude had been more than she could bear. En’en was a substantially more competent negotiator than Yao, but in the end, swayed by her love for her mistress, she couldn’t help saying something.

“That’s what you think Vice Minister Lu was up to?” Lahan asked.

The vice minister was forty years old. Granted, he had begun his court service under the former emperor, but a man as smart as he was would have known what to do when confronted with the choice between continuing to serve the reigning sovereign, a puppet of the empress regnant with scant life left to live, or to align himself with the heir apparent.

Like Lahan, he would have asked himself what he could do to help give the prince a freer hand at court. It didn’t take any calculations to see what would happen when the new ruler took over power from an empress regnant who had conducted puppet politics for so long. Ministers gorged on power sometimes acted as if they had forgotten there was a court hierarchy at all.

The prince—the man who now sat on the throne as Emperor—was well aware of the dangers, and had taken measures to neutralize them. The reason Lahan could say this with confidence and not as a rumor was because his honored father Lakan had lent the sovereign-to-be his aid at the time.

Lakan hadn’t hesitated to chase his own father and half-brother out in order to secure power. At the same time, he had seen to it that several hostile administrators received punitive postings to distant lands. To Lakan, even the Emperor no doubt looked like a game piece, a King.

Lahan had played his part in all this. At the time, though, he’d been so absorbed in solving the puzzle he’d been given, breaking the code, that he hadn’t stopped to think what it all meant. Looking back on it now, he wished he had kept a diary or something; then he might have been able to go back and make a comparison.

“Hrm.” He was torn. For once, he wasn’t sure what to do.

He wasn’t looking for one hundred percent confidence in the information. If it seemed even remotely likely to be useful, then he ought to try to get it. Even if the odds were, say, less than eleven percent.

Whatever the veracity of the information might be, now that he had been given the hint, “coal,” he would need to investigate. But insofar as this information warranted investigating, to throw Yao and En’en out of his house now would be to owe them something later.

At the moment, all Yao wanted was to stay here. She wasn’t even asking him for all the details about the western capital.

Part of him thought, would it really be so bad to let her stay? Yet at the same time, he harbored an anxiety he couldn’t give a name to. It was just a feeling, something too faint yet to quantify in numbers.

And Lahan decided to ignore it.

“Very well. If this annex suits you, you may stay here. However, that’s all that I’m offering. I will not provide you with any information that might be in violation of my professional duties.”

“Y-You mean it? We can stay?” Yao asked, her face growing thirty percent more cheerful than usual. En’en, by contrast, was fifty-five percent relieved and forty percent uneasy—while the remaining five percent was devoted to glowering at Lahan.

Why would she give him such a scathing look? Lahan felt very much the innocent victim here.

Later, Lahan would learn the true meaning of En’en’s glare, and he would have further cause to regret allowing Yao to stay in his home—but he couldn’t know that now. Not at this stage.