“Urgh... I had my bodyguards part of the way, but one went chasing after the horses when they took fright at the grasshopper swarm and fled, another went his way when we were attacked by bandits... I managed to trade what little dried potato I had for what we needed at the various places we passed through—and then people tried to steal the rest of my potatoes! On my way westward through the villages, anywhere I stopped to teach them about growing potatoes, I also warned them that there could be a plague of insects coming, and on my way back I found that there was comparatively little damage to those villages. The first one, they even thanked me and gave me a place to stay. And then in the next village...”

Lahan’s Brother might mutter and grumble, but he was a really good person; he would do his job. It was the same reason Maomao prayed that people wouldn’t work him into the ground.

The letters were presumably from Luomen, or maybe from the Verdigris House.

Maomao went back to the medical office and got her mail, then went to her room to open it. She had gradually renovated the decor until, as one might expect, it was a simple room with medicinal herbs hanging everywhere. The quack doctor, who had so kindly redecorated for her in the first place, had looked disappointed, but on this point Maomao was not prepared to budge.

She had three letters, from Lahan, Yao, and En’en, respectively.

Oh, right.
 She remembered belatedly that before they’d set out, Yao had told her to write sometimes. 
And I haven’t sent a single word.

Things had been so chaotic that she’d had neither the time nor the motivation to send any letters. She hadn’t even given it much thought, assuming that if anything really serious came up, Jinshi would contact her at the medical office.

Maomao looked at the three letters and pondered how to approach them. After a moment, she decided to leave Lahan’s for later. She waved her finger back and forth between Yao’s and En’en’s letters, not sure which to read first, and her finger settled on Yao’s. It was backed with sturdy oil paper, to give it the best chance of surviving the long trip. Normally, Maomao might have expected En’en to add perfume, or use fine paper, or even send some flowers, but in this case they seemed to have prioritized utility.

It’s far enough that you can’t even assume the letter will ever arrive.

Yao’s letter was the usual, pointed and pouty until it abruptly turned shy and sweet. It pointed out that Yao hadn’t gotten any letters from Maomao, and wondered what was going on. It said she had heard about the insect plague in the west, and had taken it upon herself to write, and was Maomao doing okay? And so on and so forth.

The letter was written in careful columns of neat characters that occasionally grew bold with emotion. Ah, Yao. Even her handwriting was transparent.

Don’t worry! I promise, I’ll write back...

The real problem was how long it might take any letter Maomao sent to reach Yao, but that was out of her hands.

Next she opened En’en’s letter. Like Yao’s, it had been reinforced with oil paper.

She looked over the letter. Then she turned it over, looked up at the ceiling, and sighed. She pressed under her eyes with her thumb and pointer finger.

Then she turned the letter back over and looked again. The paper was the same size as Yao’s letter, but En’en’s characters were hardly bigger than grains of rice, and ran together in a cursive hand, flowing down the page like a sutra. Some ninety percent of it was about Yao. This was no letter; it was a collection of field notes from En’en’s observations of her mistress.

Maybe En’en was trying to tell Maomao something important, but the more of the letter Maomao read, the more the message seemed to be simply My mistress is so darn cute!

There was one thing that weighed on En’en: that Yao still hadn’t given up the idea of doing the same work as a full-fledged physician.

There seemed to be something else too, but it was only an implication, a whiff detectable from her dense text, and nothing more.

Sorry, I don’t have time to play guessing games
, Maomao thought, and set En’en’s letter aside. 
All right, time for the last one.

She was surprised to receive a letter from Lahan. Wouldn’t it be better for him to contact Jinshi? Surely he realized that with Maomao, there was the distinct possibility that she would throw the letter away without ever reading it.

In any case, it had reached her safely, and for the sake of those who had helped it do so, she decided to open it.

Lahan’s letter, too, was backed with oil paper, like the others. It hadn’t surprised Maomao that Yao’s and En’en’s letters might be constructed the same way, but Lahan’s as well? That seemed a little odd. Then again, maybe they sold paper that was made that way, specifically for sending long distances.

Whatever. She looked at the letter, which said:

Yao and En’en are at my house yet! What do you suppose I should do?

The sentences evinced a rare display of uncertainty on Lahan’s part. The rest of the letter politely asked after the health of those in the western capital, but the matter of Yao and En’en was clearly his main concern.

Maomao carefully folded the letters back up. She needed somewhere to put them for the time being. The quack doctor had given her, at her request, an empty box from when he’d gotten some manju buns, and she decided to use that. Maomao was a commoner at heart, unable to throw away even an empty box.