“Oh, my!” The quack put his hands to his mouth and frowned in distress.

“Then again...” Here Tianyu turned to the counterargument. “Another soldier asked him, ‘So who do you think got you those potatoes?’”

In short, there were soldiers who doubted Jinshi’s motives, but there were others who understood the position he was in. Still, if there were soldiers—even if it wasn’t all of them—who had doubts about Jinshi, what must it be like among the common people?

Tianyu supplied the answer. “The governor around here sure knows how to make himself popular,” he said. Technically, he was referring to the acting governor—Gyoku-ou.

“How to make himself popular?” the quack echoed. “You mean he helps with handing out the food himself?”

“He doesn’t go that far, but the people like him. It’s local soldiers who are passing out the grub, so people automatically assume it was their beloved governor who got it to them. And the soldiers don’t make any secret when they go out to stop people from making trouble—within the capital limits, at least!”

“Well, now, that is something!” said the quack, who had begun to prepare tea. There were no more tea leaves, though, so he was brewing dried dandelion leaves.

“Something, sure. Even if it does all seem like a bit of a performance.” Tianyu seemed to be deliberately talking Gyoku-ou up.

Actor talk again, huh?
 Maomao thought. The freak strategist had said something similar about the man.

“Pardon me, but if you don’t mind my asking, how does Master Gyoku-ou look to the two of you?” Maomao asked. She really only needed Tianyu’s opinion, but the quack looked so eager to be part of the conversation that she thought she should include him.

“Master Gyoku-ou is very impressive! So manly and decisive. I admit, I only got a quick glimpse of him, but still,” the quack said. His opinion was about what Maomao had expected. She’d heard many people talk about Gyoku-ou, and while she hadn’t had a chance to confirm it with her own eyes, at least on the surface he seemed to inspire this sort of impression.

“Good question...” Tianyu sipped his dandelion tea and packed the medicine Maomao gave him into a box. “He seems like...someone who was born in the wrong era.”

“The wrong era?”

“Yeah. You know, a lot like your weirdo strategist.”

Maomao did 
not
 like what she was hearing. “What exactly does that mean?”

“All I’m saying is they aren’t built to get along in daily life. Or...maybe I should say, they weren’t meant for quiet days. I got just a glimpse of the guy around town, and he seemed invigorated by all the fuss.”

“Funny, I might have said the same thing about you.”

“Maybe I’m one of them, then? Then again...maybe not quite.” Tianyu looked genuinely torn.

“What exactly makes you different?” Maomao asked.

“It’s like...the wanting to stand out. The wanting to be noticed. I can’t quite articulate it.”

“You mean a desire for approval?”

“Like I said, I’m not sure. Eh, whatever.” Tianyu drained the last of his tea, then left carrying his medicine. Tired of the subject of Gyoku-ou, probably.

“One of them, huh?” Maomao muttered. It didn’t sound like a very good thing to her.

Maybe she didn’t understand. Instead of worrying about it, she decided to see what she could do about shoring up their medicine supply.

After some consideration, Maomao decided that her best bet was to turn to a pro farmer. Having tended to his bean sprouts, he was now in his field.

“Grow medicinal herbs?” Lahan’s Brother had changed into work clothes and carried a hoe. His own costume—not to mention the expert way he swung the hoe—utterly betrayed all his insistence that he was not a farmer.

The groundskeeper’s meticulously manicured garden was now a thing of the past, transformed into an experimental agricultural space full of wheat and sweet potatoes. The earth was being worked by the other farmers who had accompanied Lahan’s Brother from the central region, as well as the groundskeeper himself, who looked thoroughly defeated.

“True, a field for medicinal herbs might be a good idea in the long run, but I think it’s going to be tough around here. The western capital itself is so dry it’s not really suited for fields, and the grasslands are too far away to be practical. And this field is off-limits! It’s for wheat and potatoes and nothing else!”

“But you’re always going off to plow fields all over, aren’t you, Lahan’s Brother?”

“That’s legitimate work! I was 
told
 to plant potato seeds everywhere I could!”

“Who told you?” Had Jinshi made another special request of him?

“My father,” he said miserably. “I don’t think he has any idea what’s really going on. I got a letter from him, here in the middle of this emergency, and what did it say? ‘I’m waiting for your report!’ And meanwhile, I thought I was going to die!”

If Lahan’s Brother was a proper, serious farmer, Lahan’s Father was a deranged one.

“That’s true. You did well to survive, Lahan’s Brother. How did you get back here?” He seemed to have been separated from his bodyguards, and he’d been far on the western edge of the province; it must have been quite a journey.

“Urgh... I had my bodyguards part of the way, but one went chasing after the horses when they took fright at the grasshopper swarm and fled, another went his way when we were attacked by bandits... I managed to trade what little dried potato I had for what we needed at the various places we passed through—and then people tried to steal the rest of my potatoes! On my way westward through the villages, anywhere I stopped to teach them about growing potatoes, I also warned them that there could be a plague of insects coming, and on my way back I found that there was comparatively little damage to those villages. The first one, they even thanked me and gave me a place to stay. And then in the next village...”

This wouldn’t do. If Maomao listened to his entire story, she would have enough of his exploits to fill a book.

“Okay, yep, I get it, I hear you. Well, if you find a place that looks good for growing medicinal herbs, you tell me.”

“Oh, hear me out to the end. Come on, listen! Bah, fine. I can see there’s no reasoning with you. Just don’t expect too much.”

Lahan’s Brother might mutter and grumble, but he was a really good person; he would do his job. It was the same reason Maomao prayed that people wouldn’t work him into the ground.

“That reminds me—some letters came for you too,” he said.

“Oh? Who from?”

“Miss Chue was just here. Maybe you missed each other.”

The letters were presumably from Luomen, or maybe from the Verdigris House.

Maomao went back to the medical office and got her mail, then went to her room to open it. She had gradually renovated the decor until, as one might expect, it was a simple room with medicinal herbs hanging everywhere. The quack doctor, who had so kindly redecorated for her in the first place, had looked disappointed, but on this point Maomao was not prepared to budge.

She had three letters, from Lahan, Yao, and En’en, respectively.

Oh, right.
 She remembered belatedly that before they’d set out, Yao had told her to write sometimes. 
And I haven’t sent a single word.

Things had been so chaotic that she’d had neither the time nor the motivation to send any letters. She hadn’t even given it much thought, assuming that if anything really serious came up, Jinshi would contact her at the medical office.

Maomao looked at the three letters and pondered how to approach them. After a moment, she decided to leave Lahan’s for later. She waved her finger back and forth between Yao’s and En’en’s letters, not sure which to read first, and her finger settled on Yao’s. It was backed with sturdy oil paper, to give it the best chance of surviving the long trip. Normally, Maomao might have expected En’en to add perfume, or use fine paper, or even send some flowers, but in this case they seemed to have prioritized utility.

It’s far enough that you can’t even assume the letter will ever arrive.

Yao’s letter was the usual, pointed and pouty until it abruptly turned shy and sweet. It pointed out that Yao hadn’t gotten any letters from Maomao, and wondered what was going on. It said she had heard about the insect plague in the west, and had taken it upon herself to write, and was Maomao doing okay? And so on and so forth.

The letter was written in careful columns of neat characters that occasionally grew bold with emotion. Ah, Yao. Even her handwriting was transparent.

Don’t worry! I promise, I’ll write back...

The real problem was how long it might take any letter Maomao sent to reach Yao, but that was out of her hands.

Next she opened En’en’s letter. Like Yao’s, it had been reinforced with oil paper.

She looked over the letter. Then she turned it over, looked up at the ceiling, and sighed. She pressed under her eyes with her thumb and pointer finger.

Then she turned the letter back over and looked again. The paper was the same size as Yao’s letter, but En’en’s characters were hardly bigger than grains of rice, and ran together in a cursive hand, flowing down the page like a sutra. Some ninety percent of it was about Yao. This was no letter; it was a collection of field notes from En’en’s observations of her mistress.

Maybe En’en was trying to tell Maomao something important, but the more of the letter Maomao read, the more the message seemed to be simply My mistress is so darn cute!

There was one thing that weighed on En’en: that Yao still hadn’t given up the idea of doing the same work as a full-fledged physician.

There seemed to be something else too, but it was only an implication, a whiff detectable from her dense text, and nothing more.

Sorry, I don’t have time to play guessing games
, Maomao thought, and set En’en’s letter aside. 
All right, time for the last one.

She was surprised to receive a letter from Lahan. Wouldn’t it be better for him to contact Jinshi? Surely he realized that with Maomao, there was the distinct possibility that she would throw the letter away without ever reading it.

In any case, it had reached her safely, and for the sake of those who had helped it do so, she decided to open it.

Lahan’s letter, too, was backed with oil paper, like the others. It hadn’t surprised Maomao that Yao’s and En’en’s letters might be constructed the same way, but Lahan’s as well? That seemed a little odd. Then again, maybe they sold paper that was made that way, specifically for sending long distances.

Whatever. She looked at the letter, which said:

Yao and En’en are at my house yet! What do you suppose I should do?

The sentences evinced a rare display of uncertainty on Lahan’s part. The rest of the letter politely asked after the health of those in the western capital, but the matter of Yao and En’en was clearly his main concern.

Hell, I don’t know.

Maomao carefully folded the letters back up. She needed somewhere to put them for the time being. The quack doctor had given her, at her request, an empty box from when he’d gotten some manju buns, and she decided to use that. Maomao was a commoner at heart, unable to throw away even an empty box.