“The seeds are only half the equation. What do we do about water?” Lahan’s Brother asked. “Assuming, of course, that we get enough seeds to dry up the pond.”

“I think we can worry about that later. Anyway, I wouldn’t say no to some soybeans or mung beans either.”

“Good point. Although even if we’re lucky, I think it’ll only amount to a patch on the problem.”

Lahan’s Brother seemed to have a number of different irons in the fire besides his bean sprouts. He was in the process of turning a corner of the annex’s garden into a field, something for which Maomao liked to imagine he’d gotten permission. Meanwhile, Chue was building a goat shed. Maomao hoped Gyokuen wouldn’t be too surprised when he got back to the western capital.

“I’m sorry, what did you call me?” Maomao looked like she was ready to spit in his face.

“Oh, spare me. I’m pretty sure I saw someone going to the medical office. Don’t you need to check on them? Do you trust that old doctor all by himself?”

“Point taken. I 
am
 worried, so I’ll be going.” She gave Lahan’s Brother a little wave and headed for the medical office.

“Well! Fancy seeing you here,” she said when she arrived. Who should be waiting in the office but Tianyu?

“We’re out of medicine,” he said.

“Oh you are, are you?”

He gave her an expectant look. What did he want from her? The lax, easygoing man had acquired a tan from the desert sun. Dr. You had clearly been putting him to work.

“What exactly are you out of?” Maomao asked, eyeing the medicine cabinet.

“Styptics, antiseptics, and salves. Also cold medicine, antipyretics, diarrhea cures, and any drugs to help a headache.”

“Is there anything you 
do
 have?” Maomao scowled. It seemed like just yesterday they had resupplied.

“Not really. We’ve had a lot of cases of the runs in particular. Maybe there’s a sketchy restaurant in town. And the headache cures... Well, let’s say I think our superior needs them these days.”

They only had two “superiors,” Dr. You and another physician. Somehow, Maomao suspected the man in question was the latter.

“Stomach medication might be better. Not that we have any of that,” Maomao said. She meant it as a joke, but circumstances were getting less and less funny. “This is the last of our medicine.”

“Well, make some more! Please?”

“We don’t have ingredients!” Maomao and her companions were making as much medicine as they could; even Lihaku and Chue were being pressed into service.

“Use substitutes, then.”

“We are. We’re almost out of them.”

“Seriously? Doesn’t that impact the quality?”

“Well, we can’t have everything, can we?”

Of course Maomao would have preferred to supply only the best medicine, but they didn’t have what they didn’t have.

“The medicinal herbs aren’t as good around here as they are in the central region,” she said.

Part of it was the climate. The region around the western capital had its own endemic plant life, including some with medicinal applications, but Maomao, who had spent her entire life in the central region, didn’t really know how to use them. This area was a nexus of trade and communication with other countries, and supposedly there was nothing that couldn’t be obtained in the western capital.

I just wish they would prioritize medicine in those supply shipments they send.

Maybe they figured that food had to come first and that medicine could wait. Or maybe the supplies just weren’t reaching Maomao at the medical office.

“Huh,” Tianyu grunted. “At this rate, I wonder if we’ll ever get back to the royal capital.”

“Who knows.”

“You think Luomen will be okay?” said the quack doctor, who had appeared without Maomao quite noticing him.

Right. Pops...

Luomen was serving in the rear palace in lieu of the quack, so she thought—she hoped—that he would be fine. If anything, she thought the quack should be more concerned about himself.

They’d known that the expedition to the western capital would be a longer one, but as Tianyu said, at the moment there was truly no end in sight. Maomao thought that maybe Jinshi, at least, ought to go back to the Imperial seat, but he showed no sign of leaving.

He might have rejected the idea himself, knowing him.

Things in the western capital at that moment were, quite frankly, bad. Yes, they had known what was coming, and that made it ever so slightly better, but they were facing down a natural disaster.

Insect plagues have supposedly been known to destroy countries before. Maybe there had been smaller swarms in the past here, but one as big as this? It must have been decades since such a thing had happened. Maybe fifty years.

Jinshi had requested support from the central region, and his presence at least ensured that it was easier to get than it would have been otherwise. They might even send a little more than they would have otherwise, as long as he was there.

From where Maomao was standing, Jinshi and the Emperor didn’t seem to be at odds.

Even if I still have some questions about the incident that got him sent here.

Presumably, there had simply been no one else to go.

“I suppose the 
honored
 Imperial younger brother is still in his 
honored
 room doing his 
honored
 work,” Tianyu said with no small trace of sarcasm.

“There’s nothing else for him to do!” the quack doctor piped up. “The Moon Prince can’t leave the mansion—it’s dangerous!”

“Yeah, I get that, but it’s not a good look,” Tianyu said.

“What do you mean?”

“Soldiers are being sent hither and yon, while he just gives the orders, wolfing down his food in his nice, safe room—they say.”

“Who says?”

“One of the lower-ranking soldiers I overheard having his potato congee.”

“Huh!”

“Right.”