Lahan being who he was, there was no way he didn’t know about the plague of insects that had swept I-sei Province. Moreover, he was a man with his share of curiosity—he certainly should have written to Rikuson sometime in the last month to try to sound him out about what was going on. Were things really that busy in the capital?

Wait—had Lahan written to anyone else recently? A thought of the young woman Lahan referred to as his little sister flashed through Rikuson’s mind. He considered asking her if she’d heard anything from him, but then thought better of it. It would be best if he kept his distance from Maomao. He knew she would keep her distance from him—that she would have to. That would be better for both of them. That was why Rikuson had made the joking offer of marriage: a joke it was, but he knew that the hyperprotective elements around Maomao would respond immediately.

He mentally put the matter aside and decided to submit the papers he had finished reviewing. He stepped into the hallway to flag down an official, but then he spotted Gyoku-ou on the far side of the courtyard garden with several soldiers.

Suddenly, Rikuson didn’t want to be there. He retreated back to his desk and picked up one of the requests for provisions.

Addressed to the governor, it came from one of the farming villages. They hadn’t been able to harvest anything, so would he please send some food, it asked. The petition also touched on the conscription of soldiers. That wasn’t something Rikuson would normally see—this matter should have been taken care of before it reached him. The administrators must have mistakenly included it among the mass of paperwork.

The petition included such expressions of love and loyalty as the farmers knew how to muster. It thanked Gyoku-ou for having supported them out of his private finances several times in the past. In every way, the letter looked like an innocent cry for help from some innocent farmers turning to the best ruler they knew.

It sounded like a lovely story of a kind and generous governor rescuing his impoverished and hard-pressed people. How must Gyoku-ou look to them? It was only natural that they would be willing to furnish him with soldiers.

“Conscription,” Rikuson mumbled. He thought about Gyoku-ou, with his soldiers. What did he intend to do with them? Yes, the people were restless after the major disaster that had just occurred, but did he really need to raise more troops in order to suppress them?

Rikuson sighed. Gyoku-ou, popular with his people. An unprecedented disaster. The strategist and the Imperial younger brother, come from the royal capital.

The players were all here, the stage was set.

But set for what? Rikuson still wasn’t sure. Because in his heart of hearts, he still cherished a wish, still held out hope.

Hope that Gyoku-ou would be a good governor after all.