Food shortages tended to make the gulf between the haves and have-nots especially apparent. As the poor began to starve, they would soon turn to crime. The whole reason Jinshi had hurried to provide extra food was to blunt that possibility, to fill people’s stomachs before they turned to violence.

Gyoku-ou gave Jinshi a smile that verged on a leer. It was an expression one would never have seen from his father. It was the look not of a merchant but of a soldier, of a man less interested in kindness and decency than martial valor.

A bureaucrat behind Gyoku-ou handed him a large piece of paper.

“I’d like you to take a look at this,” Gyoku-ou said, and placed the paper on the table. It was a map of I-sei Province, with several areas circled in ink. Some of the circles were black and some were red, with more red circles the farther one went to the west.

“Hmm,” Lakan said thoughtfully, looking up from his Go problems. “Bandit attacks?”

They had circled everywhere an incident had taken place.

“Judging by the locations, I take it the red ones are incursions by foreign tribes.”

“Your mind is every bit as sharp as they say, sir.” Gyoku-ou looked at Lakan, visibly pleased. The strategist normally seemed like a doddering fool, but when it came to reading human behavior, he had no peer.

So the red circles were attacks believed to have been perpetrated by foreigners. True, I-sei Province was located right on the border—but even at that, the number of red circles seemed inordinately large to Jinshi. “Are they getting more frequent?” he asked.

“They are,” Gyoku-ou confirmed. “There were a good number last year as well, but this year has been particularly bad. We’d made some, ahem, modest military preparations, but there couldn’t have been a worse time for an insect plague.”

Jinshi had heard talk that conscriptions were increasing—but to hear such words from the governor’s own mouth left him speechless. Gyoku-ou was no fool.

“I think we can safely assume that the swarm has driven those reprobates into Li,” said Gyoku-ou. The swarm had covered a wide area, and the less prepared a place was, the worse the damage would be. Certainly other countries would have been hit at least as hard as their own, and possibly even worse.

“Then these soldiers you want are for the suppression of the tribes?” Jinshi asked.

There had been such an excursion some years before, but that had been merely about pushing the foreigners back—as he recalled, it hadn’t gone to I-sei province, but the western edge of Shihoku Province.

Gyoku-ou, however, said, “No,” and laid down another map. This one showed an even larger area, including Shaoh, Hokuaren, and Anan. “What would you say if we aimed here ?”

Jinshi looked at him. “What exactly do you mean by that?”

“Well, it’s as you can see on this map. The western reaches of I-sei Province have been the hardest hit. With the swarm having savaged every country around us, importing food is going to be difficult. So, what, then? Do we try to transport provisions overland?”

It would likely be impossible to transport enough food—and if attacks from the tribes weren’t enough, an invasion by a foreign country was also a real possibility. I-sei Province’s hard-won food would be stolen.

“What’s the quickest way to get provisions to this western area?” Gyoku-ou asked. “I believe it’s not by land—but by sea.”

And there sat Shaoh, a central hub of trade, well-connected to other places by both land and water. Yes, having free use of Shaoh’s harbors would certainly make it much easier to ensure a stable supply of food. Shaoh, however, would exact a heavy fee for the use of its harbors. Not to mention the likelihood that many of them were already dedicated to shoring up Shaoh’s own internal supply problems in the wake of the plague.

“You’re suggesting we start a war for this?” Jinshi kept his voice as level as he could. He had been more than ready to cede center stage to Gyoku-ou, to let him be in charge—but this was beyond the pale. In order to put food in his people’s mouths, he was proposing thievery. It would make him no different from the bandits he despised.

“Oh? You’re against the idea? I seem to recall it is you yourself, Moon Prince, who has the greatest grievance against Shaoh. The ripest reason to go to war.”

Gyoku-ou oozed confidence. Jinshi knew what he was referring to—the Shaohnese shrine maiden. He’d allowed her to die last year, and it had left Shaoh with leverage over him. Jinshi suspected, however, that Gyoku-ou did not know that the shrine maiden was in fact alive, and secretly taking refuge in Li.

“It was another Shaohnese woman who killed the shrine maiden,” Gyoku-ou said. “I grant she had been admitted to the rear palace as a consort, but surely Li can’t be held accountable for everything a woman from a foreign country might do.” Certainly, Li had come off the worst in the opinion of the wider world—and the Imperial family in particular had been embarrassed. “Shaoh used the murder of their shrine maiden to try to blackmail our country. More than reason enough to go to war, I would say. But you wouldn’t, Imperial younger brother ?”

Depending on the era, a “reason to go to war” could be nearly anything. After all, simply besmirching the ruling family could get an entire clan wiped out.

Now Gyoku-ou turned to the strategist. “What do you think, Sir Lakan?”

Lakan once again stopped working his Go problems and studied the map intently. He wore the same look with which he would appraise a board game. He reached out to his aide, who gave him a bag. There were Shogi pieces inside.

“I don’t know about your reasons or excuses. All I know is how to win at Shogi,” Lakan said, and then he started arranging the pieces on the map. The aide gave Jinshi an apologetic look.

There was no malice in Lakan—but neither was there virtue. So long as something didn’t harm him or his family, he paid it no mind. If there was a chance to participate in an interesting game, however—that, he wouldn’t miss.

Jinshi saw now why Gyoku-ou had included Lakan in this conference. To the strategist, war was just a combination of his favorite games: it was a Shogi match using human pieces, and a game of Go in which you captured real territory.

“If you would stand at our head, Moon Prince, I have no doubt the people of the west would rally behind you.” This, then, was what Gyoku-ou was really aiming at with Jinshi. “Don’t you think that the people wish to behold you not merely as a visitor, but as a leader?”

There was one thing that Gyoku-ou seemed to have misunderstood. He believed Jinshi was eager for people to see him in his true guise. He was trying to flatter Jinshi’s pride as part of the Imperial family.

“If you should step forth, I would support you wholeheartedly—I would be your right hand!” Gyoku-ou said, his gaze piercing. Jinshi found himself wondering if Gyoku-ou truly was related to Gyokuyou. She, too, could be strong-willed, but she was nothing like this.

Jinshi could see it in Gyoku-ou’s eyes: he wanted war. He was eager for it.

“I may summon soldiers, but people live here.”

“Yes, they do. Our western lands are home to many loyal hearts. They may be merely farmers, but if the need were to arise, a great many of them would lend you their strength. Imagine! You leading us and Sir Lakan formulating our strategy. And finally, though I grant our power be modest, the You clan would stand to aid you.”

“The You clan?”

Gyoku-en might have started life as a merchant, but he had influence all over I-sei Province. His current power might even surpass that of the Yi, who had been destroyed seventeen years before.

Jinshi narrowed his eyes. “Tell me. Does Sir Gyoku-en know about this plan?”

There was the slightest twitch of Gyoku-ou’s eyebrow. “My father has long spoken of what we might gain if we could extend our reach into Shaoh’s territory.”

“Ahh. So he doesn’t know. And yet the 
whole
 clan of You would stand by me?”

Jinshi, drawing on his experiences in that den of women, the rear palace, remained resolutely calm. Compared to the lies women told, men’s braggadocio was rough, their facades easy to poke holes in.

“A sea route,” he said. “Yes, the benefits would be great. It does make one wish for Shaoh’s harbors, doesn’t it? But it would come at too high a price. What of the other countries with which Shaoh shares a land border? They might cease to send trade goods. And then there’s the question of attacking a nation that has made itself studiously neutral, as Shaoh has. Would we not be seen as barbarians who refused to respect the agreements? Sir Gyoku-en, I feel sure, would weigh all these things carefully in his calculations.”

Gyoku-en, as we’ve said, was a merchant at heart, and he knew better than to fixate on the profit right in front of his eyes. He would be sure to ask what he would sacrifice to gain it. Even if his son had written to him seeking his advice on this matter, Jinshi was confident that Gyoku-en would have told him that it was too soon for such a move.

Jinshi thought he caught a flicker in Gyoku-ou’s eyes at the mention of his father’s name; he thought the other man was the slightest bit shaken.

Gyoku-ou adopted a discontented air. Jinshi, meanwhile, refused to let his expression soften. The Emperor’s younger brother he might be, but he knew that even so, Gyoku-ou would view him as a young upstart, hardly half his own age. Perhaps he thought he could overwhelm Jinshi with sheer presence.

He could not.