“I’m here as a representative of the central region—but I am also His Majesty’s eyes, and it would not be fitting for the eyes to take it upon themselves to command.”

The words His Majesty sent a shiver through the bureaucrats waiting nearby. All of them hailed from the western capital—meaning that they were Gyoku-ou’s allies, and presumably viewed Jinshi as little more than an insouciant child. There was audible muttering when the child pushed back against their own master.

Gaoshun gave Jinshi the faintest of smiles. Perhaps he had a bit less heartburn now. Chue could spare them the raised thumb, though.

Gyoku-ou would not be put off so easily. “You say, then, that as the Emperor’s eyes, you cannot make decisions on your own?” Yes, definitely the right choice to leave Basen behind. He would have risen to this obvious provocation and only made things worse.

“I say this 
because
 I have decided. Have you determined that an attack upon Shaoh would do more good than harm? A merchant must be skilled at such calculations.”

Jinshi returned taunt for taunt. He knew he was very much on Gyoku-ou’s home ground here, and he had no desire to engage in a losing battle. He wished he had reinforcements at this moment. “If we attack Shaoh, I cannot imagine Hokuaren will stand quietly by.”

“That ragtag confederation of barbarians skulking in the north? What have we to fear from them?”

“Fair enough. You know, there’s an animal that can be hunted up in Hokuaren—the red deer. Its horns make an excellent energy tonic, one prepared every night for the Emperor and his ladies in the rear palace.” There was no small self-deprecation in Jinshi’s remark. He’d spent years pretending to be a eunuch. He knew how to let ridicule roll off his back. “Then there’s the tigers. They have very large ones up north—the bones are used in making wine.”

It was called, appropriately enough, tiger bone wine, and it was said to be highly nourishing.

Needless to say, Jinshi had become quite knowledgeable about medicines. “A physician with extensive experience of medicines taught me, so it was quite effective,” he said.

Strictly speaking, it hadn’t been a physician, but his point was made. Moreover, he wasn’t so sure whether the elixir had been effective or not. He’d left it to the chefs in the rear palace to serve the medicinal meals.

“Medicines and...alcohol...” Lakan muttered. “Say, Onsou. Once this war starts, will we still be able to get those things?”

“We may be able to, sir, but they’ll probably be much more expensive,” his aide replied. “Medicine tends to be scarce in times of war. It’s hard on doctors and apothecaries.”

“I see.” Lakan returned the Shogi pieces he’d been placing into the bag they came from and stood up.

Onsou was a highly capable aide-de-camp. He’d naturally understood what Jinshi was trying to communicate to Lakan.

“What seems to be the matter, Sir Lakan?” Gyoku-ou asked, puzzled.

“Sorry. I’m leaving,” Lakan said, and with that, he turned and went.

“Master Lakan, wait for me!” Onsou cried, chasing after him.

The westerners had hardly picked their jaws up off the floor when Jinshi stood as well. “It seems our strategist is in no mood for war. Perhaps I might also be on my way, then?”

Gyoku-ou said nothing. Jinshi decided to take that to mean that he could go.

“He didn’t look like he liked that very much,” Chue whispered.

Sadly for Gyoku-ou, if there was one realm in which Jinshi had far more experience than he did, it was what made Lakan tick.