Maomao was almost as surprised as he was. She hadn’t even known Lahan’s Brother was capable of looking so angry. If someone had carved his likeness in wood at that moment, it could have passed for a wrathful deity.

“That bastard... He chases me to a piddling field somewhere, while he lives in a mansion with an eligible young woman... 
Two
 eligible young women!”

With En’en around, Maomao was sure that there would be no trysts, assignations, or romantic rendezvous of any kind, but she didn’t think trying to explain that to Lahan’s Brother would help at the moment.

The quack doctor was still cowering, so Maomao grabbed the duck as it went by. Lahan’s Brother buried his face in its feathers.

After a few minutes, Lahan’s Brother’s face was back to normal. The duck, evidently unwilling to work for free, began badgering the quack for some food.

With Lahan’s Brother finally calm, Maomao thought maybe they could get back on track. “Don’t you think there’s something odd about this writing?” she said.

He even sounded different now. For all the La blood in his veins, he was a surprisingly normal person, and relatively handsome to boot, but at that moment he looked supremely sullen. If duck therapy wasn’t enough, a cat seemed the next best thing, but unfortunately the little calico furball was far, far away.

“‘Again’ I would have understood, but ‘yet’? That doesn’t make sense. Those two went home once already.”

“What do you mean, they went home 
once
? This is the second time they’ve been there?”

“Lahan’s Brother, please keep your distance when you’re making that face.”

“I told you not to say Lahan’s name in front of me!”

Lahan’s Brother appeared to be manfully enraged by his younger brother’s relations with the fairer sex.

Suppose, just suppose, that Yao and En’en had once again sought shelter at Lahan’s house because of things with Yao’s uncle. Maomao could imagine that. But she was also sure that Lahan, of all people, would never write 
yet
 when he meant 
again
.

There’s something going on here.

She studied Lahan’s letter. It was stuck firmly to the oil paper backing; there didn’t seem to be any way to separate them.

No, wait. It looks like somebody 
tried
 to peel them apart.

Each of the four corners of the oil paper looked like they had been peeled at, although the traces were faint.

Somebody pulled them apart and then pasted them back together.

She examined the other two letters. If something had been done to Lahan’s missive, it seemed more than likely that the other two had been treated the same way.

When she looked closely at the text, she could see the characters were a bit blurred. Probably a product of pasting the oil paper on after the letter had been written, with the glue seeping through to the front.

What had happened to the letters? If someone had given Yao and En’en some idea, some little thing to do to their messages, they might all somehow be connected.

Maybe I’m supposed to put it over an open flame?

No; they were on oil paper. It would burn if exposed to a flame. Maybe the whole reason the letters were backed with oil paper was to fool any would-be tamperers: it would force them to actually look at the letters, whereupon they would discover there was no sensitive information in them. But that was a bluff.

Maomao continued to stare at the letters. Lahan’s Brother joined her. The quack, not wanting to feel left out, assumed a thoughtful expression.

“Are you sure this came from Lahan?” Lahan’s Brother asked at length.

“What makes you say that? That’s his handwriting. I know it pains you, but try to accept reality.”

“That’s not what I mean! You know how obsessed he is with numbers, right?”

“Yes.”

Hoo boy, did she 
ever
 know.

“But doesn’t this letter look ugly to you?” Lahan’s Brother spread open his younger brother’s letter.

“I wouldn’t say it seems unusual.”

“No, it is. When he writes a letter, it’s always on paper that’s five lines across by eight lines down.”

“Never knew that.”

Maybe it was what Lahan would have referred to as a beautiful ratio.

Unfortunately, Maomao didn’t have that much interest in Lahan’s letters. “Maybe he just didn’t have enough paper.”

“No, no. You don’t understand how obsessed with numbers he is! Once I gave myself a quick haircut—I just needed it to be shorter, you know?—and in the middle of the night, he came in and cut it all while I was asleep. And if it was uneven by so much as the width of a fingernail, he kept cutting, until there was hardly any left! Can you imagine how I felt?! He was five !”

“Okay, so you don’t have the world’s best younger brother.”

Or family, for that matter.

“
That’s
 who we’re dealing with. If he gave up his perfectly ordered writing style, there’s a reason.” Lahan’s Brother’s gaze nearly bored a hole through the letter.

Maomao, meanwhile, turned to the other two letters. Yao’s was longer than Lahan’s, but substantially shorter than En’en’s. Maomao had read more than enough of En’en’s letter, in fact, which was not only sprawling but written in characters the size of grains of rice. Lahan’s and Yao’s characters were the perfect size—very easy to read.

On a whim, Maomao placed Lahan’s letter over Yao’s. They had the same number of rows. But Yao’s letter had exactly three times as many columns. With their characters being about the same size, they could easily be overlapped. If Yao’s letter was longer, well, she could get emotional sometimes.

“Look at this,” Maomao said.

“Look at what?”

The Verdigris House got more than its share of students who were taking, or who had passed, the civil service exam. They always said that by far the hardest part of the exam was being cooped up in what amounted to a cave for days on end, writing, writing, writing. They had to write in perfectly ordered, balanced characters just like the copybooks.

“The columns and rows,” said Maomao. It wasn’t just the size of the characters: the 
number
 of characters running down the page was also identical.

She matched up the edges of the two letters, then noted the word in Yao’s that corresponded to the 
yet
 in Lahan’s. Then she slid the letter further along, observing the next word that overlapped with 
yet
.

Yao’s letter was precisely three times longer than Lahan’s. She moved Lahan’s letter one more time and observed the final overlap.

“Find...the...coal.”

“Coal?”

“Yes. It’s a rock that burns. It can be used medicinally, but I’ve heard it can also do a lot of harm.”

Maomao’s father, Luomen, was well aware that any drug could also be a poison, and he strove to use medicines with as few harmful effects as possible. Therefore, Maomao didn’t know much about coal.

“So why are we looking for this, uh, coal?”

“I’m not sure myself. But I think we should report it.”

Maomao put the letters back in the box, hoping it was all just a strange coincidence.