Gold and silver had to be mined; there was no substitute for them. But no one—at least no one in the central region—would think to dig something out of the earth when there were trees all over that were exactly as good. The people of I-sei Province, though, wanted a fuel source that wouldn’t run out, something they could use on a grander scale than livestock excrement.

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao! You seem to be lost in thought a lot these days! Your mind’s waaay off somewhere!”

“Miss Chue, Miss Chue. Am I really that zoned out?”

“Yeah! Or, well, anyway, you seem to sigh a lot.”

Maomao put a hand over her mouth.

“All right, come on, Miss Maomao. Let’s have something to eat. And I think Dr. You has something to say to Basen.”

“Huh. I’m sure that’ll be fun.”

“Oh, yes! It will be very interesting, no doubt.”

Maomao sometimes thought she and Chue didn’t mean the same thing when they said things like this.

When Maomao got to the table where the fried rice was laid out, she found a smiling Dr. You and a rather unhappy-looking Basen. Tianyu plainly wanted to hurry up and eat, but he couldn’t touch the food before they did. Apparently, even he understood the basic rules of etiquette.

“Ha ha ha! So you’re his substitute, Sir Basen?” Dr. You asked him.

“May I ask what exactly is so funny about that?” Basen replied. Things between them seemed tense. Maybe they should have brought the duck to keep the mood light.

“Yes? What’s the matter?”

“Do they know each other or something?” Maomao whispered.

“No, I think this is the first time they’ve met,” Chue whispered back.

“So what kind of person is Dr. You?”

“Oooh! Miss Chue would also like to know!”

“Oh, don’t do that. Just tell me. I promise I’ll suggest a walk around town.”

“Oh! That’s a great idea!”

Chue tended to follow Maomao whenever she went out. She seemed to love gamboling around the city, so she was quick to take Maomao up on this plan—as Maomao had guessed.

“Dr. You is a real upbeat go-getter, very dedicated to his work. But he wears his heart on his sleeve. He makes quick friends with anybody, but I don’t think he’ll ever truly understand my husband if he lives to be a hundred. Because he’s a man of the light!”

Even Maomao hadn’t 
really
 seen Chue’s husband, Basen’s older brother. She feared she might go mad if she got too close to someone who raised her hackles like that.

“What do you mean, he wears his heart on his sleeve?” she asked.

“Just like Dr. Li said, he doesn’t seem to have any interest in politics. He knows the climate and the lay of the land in the western capital, and is an excellent doctor— and he has no interest in politics. He was an excellent choice for this trip.”

Was.
 Past tense. Because there had been a miscalculation.

“Who could have predicted a sudden grasshopper plague, 
and
 that the Moon Prince wouldn’t care about his reputation, 
and
 that Master Gyokuen’s oldest son would be extremely popular here?”

“So Dr. You...?”

“He’s a fine person who would certainly never betray the Moon Prince.”

Maomao found that reassuring, although she wasn’t entirely sure why. If she felt better, though, there was one person who didn’t seem convinced.

“What are you after, here?” asked Basen, who was managing to act calm, although his nostrils had flared noticeably.

“What am I after?” echoed Dr. You, looking genuinely befuddled.

“Yes. You’ve come here on the Moon Prince’s orders—but what about the Prince’s reputation in the western capital? It’s not just the food for the handouts. The Moon Prince’s generosity is the whole reason you have this clinic, isn’t it?”

“Yes, certainly. He’s a man of great discernment. Every time I look around, I’m reminded that the fact that the western capital is so quiet despite that terrible plague is thanks to the Moon Prince.”

“You almost sound as if this isn’t the first grasshopper plague you’ve experienced. Like you know what’s happening, and that’s why you’re so relaxed,” Basen said. It was exactly what Maomao had wanted to ask, and she energetically applauded him in her mind.

“No 
as if
 about it. I’ve seen plenty of swarms in my time.”

“You have, Dr. You? Plenty of them? But I thought there hadn’t been a swarm here in decades,” Maomao said.

“Oh, there has. Just nothing big enough to bother the royal capital about.”

That certainly was plausible. But Basen pressed the point. “You didn’t report them? Isn’t that negligence?”

“Negligence? Let me ask you something, Sir Basen. How many crops must be consumed by the bugs before it’s considered a plague?”

“Well... Enough to make people’s lives harder, I guess.”

“And how much is that? So long as each person has enough grain to feed themselves, where’s the problem? There are other things we can sell; so long as we make up the shortfall, there’s no issue. Suppose, then, that we planted twice as much as normal, but then there was a swarm of insects, and in the end we only harvested the same amount as in an ordinary year. What then?”

“Er... Well...” Basen didn’t know what to say.

Dr. You was an upper physician, and he had the wits to prove it. He spoke as if all this were hypothetical, but presumably it was something that had actually happened in the past.

Increasing the size of the area to be planted, even if the harvest was ultimately unchanged, would demand much greater labor and expenditure. If, nonetheless, the same amount of taxes were exacted—now, that would make life harder.

“Li is a vast and wide country,” Dr. You said. “But the very greatness of its size means that the royal eye does not see all the way to its western edge. If the harvest is known only as a series of numbers, then what use is reporting a swarm of insects? It would only be dismissed out of hand. In that case, I should think it would be self-evident that the only choice for I-sei Province would be to deal with the matter itself.”

Dr. You wore his heart on his sleeve—so he didn’t hold back from telling Basen what he thought.

This is Dr. You, and even he feels this way , Maomao thought. The low opinion of Jinshi in the western capital seemed to have a lot to do with the perception that the central region didn’t do anything for I-sei Province.

“The Moon Prince, however, did act appropriately. It reminded me of the Yi clan.”

“The Yi clan?” Maomao asked before she could stop herself.

“Yes. Do you know them?” asked Dr. You, unperturbed at Maomao’s bursting into the conversation. Basen would have to absorb that before he could come back into the talk, so Maomao decided to take over.

“Say, maybe we should have this discussion over some food?” Dr. You said at last. “Come, now, let’s eat.”

“Food!” said Tianyu, ecstatic to finally be getting a meal. Evidently it was sheer lack of energy that explained his silence.

“Whenever there was a swarm of insects, the Yi clan would step to the front and give instructions,” Dr. You said.

“If you’ll forgive my asking, sir, weren’t they rebels?”

“Rebels? Hrm. Well, anything they did, I trust they did for the sake of I-sei Province. I personally never knew any of them to be rebellious.” Dr. You took a bite of fried rice with his spoon while he spoke.

“What exactly were the people of the Yi clan like?” Maomao asked, taking a bite herself. The rice gave the dish plenty of body and the egg gave it plenty of flavor, nuanced by the spices and mussels. She shot Chue a discreet, approving thumbs-up.

“They were beautiful, all of them. And if you got close to them, they had a wonderful smell.”

“A wonderful smell?” Maomao repeated. Then she said, “I heard they were matriarchal.”

“Yes, exactly. The women ran the clan. It’s not so different from the founding story of Li itself, is it? With Wang Mu, the Mother Royal? It’s not so surprising if such a fine and powerful woman should have other accomplished women among her inner circle. The Yi clan were the descendants of those women.”

Maomao discovered she couldn’t bring herself to continue eating. Tianyu, altogether uninterested in the story, had no such difficulties.

“I’m impressed you knew about that element, that they were matriarchal. Most young people today are so woefully ignorant of the Yi clan.” Dr. You was openly appreciative of her.

“Miss Chue knows too!”

“And so do I,” added Basen. Those who served the Imperial family probably learned of these things as a matter of course. But the average citizen of the central region would see no reason to know anything about the rulers of a land far to the west. Especially rulers who had been annihilated long ago.

“It was probably because they were women that they defended the border so stubbornly. The Yi clan took no husbands, yet they always had the most beautiful children; they looked like they had come from some other country. Their female children the Yi clan raised to be rulers, and their male children they would send out on the road.”

It was the continual mixing of blood that produced the beautiful people, and which helped keep other countries in line.

“They got along particularly well with Shaoh, with its shrine maiden. But the former empress dowager, the one called the empress regnant, perhaps didn’t get along with her so well, even if they were both women.”

“I’ll refrain from commenting on the quarrels of women,” Maomao said. Nonetheless, she had learned something very surprising—something Jinshi had never mentioned to her. Maybe she was the only one there who hadn’t known.

“So where were you seventeen years ago, Dr. You?” Maomao asked.

“Already practicing medicine in the central regions, I’m afraid.”

“Oh?”

As Maomao and Dr. You talked, Basen finished his fried rice and set down his spoon with gusto. He must have absorbed the moment while he was eating, because he said, “I see what you’re saying, Dr. You. The Moon Prince is now paying the bill for a central region that has done nothing. Fine, let’s assume you’re right about that. It doesn’t change the fact that all of his successes now are being credited to Sir You Gyoku-ou, and I have to say I don’t like that. And you bear part of the blame, doctor.”

“Me? How?”

“People take you to be acting on behalf of Sir Gyoku-ou on account of your name.”

“Really?” He looked to Tianyu for confirmation.

“Aw, Dr. Li said the same thing, remember? He said you should start every interaction by mentioning that you’d come from the central region. I think what he meant was you should communicate that you were there on the Moon Prince’s orders.” Tianyu didn’t look very happy about having to explain all this. He had some rice stuck to his cheek.

“What a strange thing to say, ‘I come from the central region.’ I 
don’t
, I come from around here. A lot of the people we’ve seen even know me.”

“Well, then just say you’re here on the Imperial younger brother’s orders or something.”

“Hrm. Doesn’t that make it sound like I’m claiming to be...close to the Imperial family? It’s a bit embarrassing.”

“Huh?” said two voices at once. What was this guy talking about? He’d gone to the big city and made his fortune, and now he was too shy to let his friends and acquaintances celebrate him for it?

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao. Can I think of him as being in the same category as Mister Quack?”

“I don’t know; I don’t think he quite fits into the ‘adorable old guy’ box. Put him somewhere else. Closer to the duck, maybe.”

“Understood!”

Maomao thought she had a pretty good idea what this “category” was that Chue was picturing.

“Anyway,” Dr. You was saying, “anyone from these parts ought to know the difference between the old Yous and the new ones.”

“The old and the new...what?” Maomao asked, tilting her head.

“The You family of doctors is the older Yous. Gyokuen and his kin came later. Now he’s got a whole big family, children and grandchildren of all kinds, but when Gyokuen and his wife first got here, it was just them and their only child, their oldest son. Although they did bring plenty of servants with them.”

“I don’t know. I think even a local would have to be at least forty years old to be aware of the difference,” Chue suggested. And among commoners, whose lives often barely extended into their fifties, there were not that many people older than forty to know the difference. Moreover, Gyokuen and his family were the face of the western capital now. To younger people, You would almost certainly mean Gyokuen or Gyoku-ou.

“Huh. So that’s how it is,” Tianyu muttered.

“I’m surprised. I thought for sure the family was way older than that,” said Maomao.

“There was a time when people started coming here to do trade. I think they moved here around then. You could find out exactly when if you checked the family register,” Dr. You replied.

“No, I don’t think you could. The family register’s been burned up,” Chue said as she sipped some goat’s milk.

“That’s a shame.”

“So anyway, you just make sure to tell your patients that it’s by the Moon Prince’s good graces you’re treating them,” said Chue, driving home the point in lieu of Basen.

“Do you suppose I have to?” the old-but-not-that-old guy said, looking abashed.

“You’re not even afraid of some thugs, Dr. You, so how can you possibly be embarrassed about this?”

“Quiet, Tianyu,” he snapped.

Apparently he was the kind who was embarrassed to make himself look too good, even if he had the ability. He’d probably only managed to make upper physician because he had Dr. Liu for a boss—someone who looked for good people and found them.

“Excuse me?” said someone who now looked fixedly at Maomao and the others. “If you’re done eating, could you get out here and relieve me?” It was Dr. Li, looking reproachfully through a crack in the door.