“I can’t believe they’re turning on the royal family,” Maomao said, packing a bag with bandages and wound-care medicine. Even Lihaku made himself useful, carrying a bottle of oil.

“Yeah. If this happened in the capital, the ringleaders would be executed and everyone who joined them would be beaten,” he said.

“I guess it just shows how high emotions are running.” The people had their collective hackles up.

“It’s a tough spot,” Lihaku said. “If it came down to kill or be killed...I have to admit, I’d start killing.” He had an unhappy smile on his face as he tore a piece of cloth and wrapped it around the end of a stick. They didn’t have any firewood to serve as torches, so he’d broken the leg off a chair. He was a soldier, trained in the ways of battle. He didn’t want to fight—but if he had to, he could.

Then he said, “With an outbreak of open violence like this, it’s the local rulers who are really going to be in trouble.”

“Yeah...”

Maomao, again, didn’t know much about politics. But she could tell that this was serious trouble.

Her heart was pounding in her ears, but having Lihaku there gave her a measure of reassurance, and meanwhile she had the responsibility of looking after the quack doctor.

“Master Gyoku-ou can say that the people rose up on their own, but he was the one who let things fester long enough for that to happen. A few commoners’ heads won’t be enough to pay for this affront to the royal family’s dignity.”

Maomao understood that. The lives of the Imperial family simply weighed that much heavier than those of the common people.

“Master Gyoku-ou was clearly cultivating his own popularity. I know our man Jinshi is a good guy, but I can’t believe he put up with it. And even if he’s willing to let it go, the people around him won’t be. Word must have reached the central region by now.”

If even the ordinarily relaxed Lihaku felt that way, the anger of those in the royal capital must be immense indeed.

“That’s a good point. I wonder how Empress Gyokuyou and Master Gyokuen feel about this.”

“Normally, you’d expect them to have a word to say about it.”

“Yes, you would...”

Considering their positions, neither of them could simply drop everything and come to the western capital. But might they send a letter or a messenger?

At the same time, there was another important figure here in addition to Jinshi and the freak strategist. Someone who would certainly not neglect communications with the capital.

“What was his name again? The other important guy who’s here?” Maomao asked. She’d heard it several times now, but as usual, she’d forgotten it.

“You aren’t much for remembering people’s names or faces, are you, miss? It was... Uh... Let’s see... I don’t remember. I remember he wasn’t, you know, a towering presence.”

“Sounds like you’re not much better than me, Master Lihaku.”

“Hold on! This guy, he was supposed to be in charge of rituals or something, right?”

“Rituals... So that would make him part of the Board of Rites... Oh! Lu! Vice Minister Lu, that was his name!” Maomao said, finally remembering.

“Right, right, Vice Minister Lu. Let’s just have faith that he’s doing something. Probably.”

“We can have all the faith we want. The trouble is happening now.”

“Point taken.”

They both sighed, and then there was a loud noise. Were the commoners trying to force their way into the annex?

“What just happened?” Maomao asked. If anyone had been hurt, she wanted to help them, but first she had to see to her own safety. Which, given her limited options, mostly meant lighting the torch and throwing it if anything happened.

I’m not eager to do that. But if it’s the only way to keep myself safe, I will.

They heard footsteps shuffling closer. Maomao and Lihaku both got ready to fight.

“Miss Maomaooo? Are you there?” It was Chue. “Do you need me to explain what’s going on?”

“Yes, please.”

Chue was holding a flag and sounded about as anxious as she usually did. “There’s a mob of commoners outside. Just like we predicted, their anger finally exploded. They’re shouting for the Moon Prince to come out to them, or be sent out to them. You know, that sort of thing.”

“Yes, I can imagine. And hear them too.”

“But you’re thinking, wasn’t there a big bang just now?”

“Yes, I am.”

“That was Master Gyoku-ou’s arrival.”

Maomao grabbed her bag of medical equipment.

“Please, don’t worry. Even Master Gyoku-ou wouldn’t lay a hand on a member of the Imperial family. But I do think this is getting very interesting.”

“Somehow, the things you think are interesting always just seem 
bad
 to me.”

“Well, anyway, come and have a look.”

At Chue’s urging, Maomao started outside. Lihaku followed them.

“What about the master physician?” Maomao asked.

“Good question. I guess we should bring him,” Chue said and started pushing the cart, although she didn’t look very happy about it. She kept shooting pointed glances at Lihaku until he took over for her.

Once they were outside, Maomao could hear a resounding man’s voice.

“Do you all understand?” he was saying. “Do you know how much the Moon Prince, who honorably resides in this household, has done for the people of the western capital?”

She heard the people murmuring.

“The grains in your food distributions were brought from afar by the Moon Prince. The fact that we are not now starving is by his munificence! The free clinic was likewise his doing. Those who have been there know all about it.”

What’s going on here?

If the voice had belonged to someone from Jinshi’s inner circle, the words would have made sense, but as far as Maomao could surmise, that was Gyoku-ou speaking.

She picked up her pace. She would have to be closer if she wanted to see anything, but getting too close would be dangerous. She looked around for somewhere that might serve as a good vantage point.

“Miss Maomao, Miss Maomao,” Chue said, beckoning to her. She was already halfway up a nearby tree. Maomao climbed up after her.

“Please try not to fall!” Lihaku said. He was still pushing the quack doctor in his cart.

Up in the branches, Maomao and Chue had an excellent view of what was going on. They could see Jinshi, behind whom stood Basen. In front of him was Gyoku-ou, interposing himself between Jinshi and the masses. The people were keeping a respectful distance, almost like spectators at a play.