“The Moon Prince responded with alacrity to the insect swarm. Much as I tried to provide for you as best I could, it is unquestionably thanks to him that you have suffered as little as you have. The immediate support from the central region is thanks to the Moon Prince’s presence here. Do you mean to tell me you cannot understand that?”

Maomao was thoroughly flummoxed. Gyoku-ou appeared to be completely reversing himself. He’d been more than happy to take credit for Jinshi’s work to this point, but now he was praising Jinshi’s efforts and loudly informing the populace about them.

What was more, Jinshi was showing his face before the people of the western capital for the first time. Yes, he had met with a handful of VIPs now and then, but a crowd of commoners? His courtly bearing and almost celestial beauty were not lost on the people. Maomao spotted several women who were clearly lovestruck.

Normally, he would probably try to be modest about all this , Maomao thought. But it was true that Jinshi had done all those things. There was no point denying it. The only person who might have a real cause to complain about Jinshi was the one who had been sent on a grueling grasshopper-slaying quest, Lahan’s Brother.

Speaking of whom, Lahan’s Brother was one of those watching things develop from inside the annex. He was so ordinary that Maomao would never have noticed him if it hadn’t been for the hoe he was carrying. He seemed to have it just in case he needed to defend himself against any outbreaks of violence—but had there really been no better weapons he could have grabbed? The hoe would make him look more like one of the marauding peasants.

Gyoku-ou’s voice carried clearly, less like he was lecturing and more like he was declaiming, delivering a speech in a play. And the people were riveted by it.

One of the commoners, however, raised a hand. “H-How is it the royal younger brother knew that this swarm was coming? H-How could he know, if he didn’t bring it himself?”

There were a few shouts of agreement from the crowd.

That’s a tough one.

If Lahan had been here, he could have broken down the statistics from the last several years, explaining how the climate and the smaller, local swarms had pointed in the direction of this larger one. But even if you had it all written down, many people here didn’t know their numbers. They wouldn’t know what the numbers meant, and they wouldn’t be convinced by them.

Jinshi took a step forward. “Allow me to explain that. When we performed our divination rituals in the capital, it produced a sign of grave misfortune in the west. Given how greatly this city has flourished under the Gyoku clan in recent years, what manner of disaster could harm it? A swarm of insects seemed the only likely prospect.”

A murmur ran through the crowd at the simple fact that the Imperial younger brother would directly address a commoner. His voice was lovely and bracing, but didn’t carry as well as Gyoku-ou’s.

Divination, huh?

Was it possible that was why Jinshi had brought Vice Minister Lu with him? He must have realized that talk about agricultural products and statistics on recent swarms would go over the heads of many of the commoners. Divination would be a much more intuitive explanation to them.

If you know the people are superstitious, comfort them with superstition. It wasn’t a bad plan, Maomao thought—but almost immediately she discovered that it was a mistake.

Gyoku-ou looked like he had been waiting for Jinshi to say something like this. “Precisely! At this moment, we need the Moon Prince’s power more than anyone else’s!” He thrust his hands into the air as if calling the commoners to witness for him. “If the oracles of those who live above the clouds are for us, what can stop the western capital—indeed, I-sei Province itself—from thriving ever more mightily?”

The people began to thrum with Gyoku-ou’s words. Those who had looked on Jinshi with hostility mere moments ago now turned to the Emperor’s younger brother with eyes of hope. Many still looked displeased, but they no longer shouted and jeered.

“What say you? Shall we ask the Moon Prince to perform a ritual on our behalf?”

Gyoku-ou certainly knew how to work the crowd. The commoners raised their hands in approbation.

“Oof. So it’s come to that,” said Chue, not looking very happy. “He did bring Vice Minister Lu in order to perform a ritual. The answer would have to be...”

Before Chue could say what the answer would be, Jinshi acted.

“Understood,” he said: his answer was affirmative. He had no other choice, and anyway, the performance of a ritual had always been part of the plan during his visit here. It had simply been postponed by the swarm.

Gyoku-ou smiled a brilliant smile—but one that also spoke of triumph assured, and more than a little pride. “Then ask for I-sei Province’s further growth! Ask that the disaster from the west be itself brought low!”

Jinshi’s expression never changed, but those closest to him knew. They could see the subtle shift in his face that indicated a touch of dismay: I’ve done it now. Maomao couldn’t see Jinshi’s exact expression because of the distance and the dark, but she knew how it must look.

“He’s right!” shouted one of the commoners. “What good does it do us to blame the insects on the Moon Prince? Why would he bring such calamity upon us? Where did those bugs come from? It was from the west! Far to the west of us!”

“Yes, that’s right!” agreed someone else. Apparently this was the part where they were supposed to laugh—several of the commoners chuckled, although Maomao didn’t know why.

“Exactly,” Gyoku-ou said. “If there is fault to be found, it lies not with the Moon Prince, but with the one who was entrusted with the care of the western capital—me myself. I can only beg forgiveness. If the slightest offense has been given to you, our august visitor, please hold me responsible.” He turned to Jinshi and bowed dramatically.

“Goodness gracious,” Chue said, looking like she wasn’t sure what to make of this.

“What is more, if there was a failure to protect this city from the grasshoppers, that too is my responsibility, entrusted as I have been with leading this place on behalf of my father, Gyokuen. The people have starved, and the blame is mine. To all of you I can say only, I’m sorry.” Now he bowed toward the commoners.

“Master Gyoku-ou! Don’t bow to us!”

“That’s right! We did this by ourselves. You’ve done nothing wrong!”

The people were eager that Gyoku-ou should raise his head. Maomao realized that the scene had changed. Jinshi, who had been the star until a moment ago, had been overshadowed by Gyoku-ou.

“He’s right. The honored Imperial younger brother isn’t at fault here,” someone said.

“It’s those troublemakers from the west that brought the bugs!”

“Yeah, and now they’re trying to steal our food too!”

There were more shouts of agreement from the crowd.

Gyoku-ou had spoken of “the disaster that came from the west.” Maomao had assumed he meant the grasshoppers. But then...

Wait, what just happened?

He’d shifted the focus of the anger from the insects to the western lands themselves. Immediately to the west of I-sei Province was Shaoh.

“Looks like a new fire is starting,” Chue said, her eyes cold.

“A new fire?”

“I’m almost impressed. I wondered what was going on, but it turns out all the playacting has been leading up to this moment.”

“Playacting? What are you talking about?”

Chue twirled her finger and a pigeon appeared in her hand. “All of it. Calling the Moon Prince here, and the master strategist, deliberately affecting a bad attitude toward the Moon Prince, deliberately giving the common people a bad impression of him. All of it was calculated for this purpose. That might even include sending his adopted daughter to the rear palace. Now, that would be something.”

The pigeon went fluttering out of Chue’s hand.

“The west has to pay!”

“Let’s get our food back!”

“Crush the barbarian tribes!”

The people started thrusting their fists in the air. The murderous energy that had been directed toward the Imperial family just moments before had taken on a new focus.

“Master Lakan said this guy was looking to be a hero, but it looks to me like he’s just as good at playing supporting roles. Maybe better, in fact. Don’t you think?”

“What do you mean?” Maomao asked.

“Well, you see? This is a stage, put here by Master Gyoku-ou. He caused the Moon Prince to mount the stage without ever meaning to—heck, he even set him up in the lead role! He apologized exquisitely for the rudeness to the Imperial family and cleared up the people’s misunderstanding in one fell swoop. And now the Moon Prince is standing there looking like a gorgeous actor. Although I guess you could say that at the moment, he and Master Gyoku-ou are sharing the spotlight.”

Maomao understood what Chue was saying. Gyoku-ou had set up the Imperial younger brother and himself—the acting governor of the western capital—as the stars, and cast a foreign people in the role of the enemy. He had said nothing definitive himself, only guided the people to the conclusions he wanted them to reach.

“What if Master Jinshi just stole it back?”

“Do you think he could? This crowd was a powder keg with his name on it until a minute ago. Besides, we’re dealing with people who are easily swayed. The Moon Prince hasn’t said anything untrue—but neither has Master Gyoku-ou. It’s just that the people’s attention has been— shwip! —swapped from the locusts to the foreign people who took their food.”

Maomao followed her point here too. “He doesn’t get his hands dirty. He doesn’t kidnap anyone. But he’s effectively taken a hostage. Clever stuff.”

Chue nodded her agreement. Jinshi began to speak, but he couldn’t offer a direct rebuttal. He only said that he would perform a ritual to expunge the destruction. It was unobjectionable, as Jinshi was wont to be, but it wasn’t enough to completely dispel the people’s misgivings.

Maomao swallowed hard and looked at Chue. “So what is Gyoku-ou after?” she asked, dropping any term of respect for the acting governor in spite of herself.

“Every hero needs a stage. But maybe the western capital isn’t the stage he wants.” Chue peered off to the west. “There must be some reason he’s so eager to start a fight with Shaoh. Something besides simple profit.”

Maomao, too, looked to the western sky. Somewhere over the horizon lay Shaoh, and beyond it, Hokuaren.