Jinshi’s expression never changed, but those closest to him knew. They could see the subtle shift in his face that indicated a touch of dismay: I’ve done it now. Maomao couldn’t see Jinshi’s exact expression because of the distance and the dark, but she knew how it must look.

“Yes, that’s right!” agreed someone else. Apparently this was the part where they were supposed to laugh—several of the commoners chuckled, although Maomao didn’t know why.

“Exactly,” Gyoku-ou said. “If there is fault to be found, it lies not with the Moon Prince, but with the one who was entrusted with the care of the western capital—me myself. I can only beg forgiveness. If the slightest offense has been given to you, our august visitor, please hold me responsible.” He turned to Jinshi and bowed dramatically.

“Goodness gracious,” Chue said, looking like she wasn’t sure what to make of this.

“What is more, if there was a failure to protect this city from the grasshoppers, that too is my responsibility, entrusted as I have been with leading this place on behalf of my father, Gyokuen. The people have starved, and the blame is mine. To all of you I can say only, I’m sorry.” Now he bowed toward the commoners.

“Master Gyoku-ou! Don’t bow to us!”

“That’s right! We did this by ourselves. You’ve done nothing wrong!”

The people were eager that Gyoku-ou should raise his head. Maomao realized that the scene had changed. Jinshi, who had been the star until a moment ago, had been overshadowed by Gyoku-ou.

“He’s right. The honored Imperial younger brother isn’t at fault here,” someone said.

“It’s those troublemakers from the west that brought the bugs!”

“Yeah, and now they’re trying to steal our food too!”

There were more shouts of agreement from the crowd.

Gyoku-ou had spoken of “the disaster that came from the west.” Maomao had assumed he meant the grasshoppers. But then...

Wait, what just happened?

He’d shifted the focus of the anger from the insects to the western lands themselves. Immediately to the west of I-sei Province was Shaoh.

“Looks like a new fire is starting,” Chue said, her eyes cold.

“A new fire?”

“I’m almost impressed. I wondered what was going on, but it turns out all the playacting has been leading up to this moment.”

“Playacting? What are you talking about?”

Chue twirled her finger and a pigeon appeared in her hand. “All of it. Calling the Moon Prince here, and the master strategist, deliberately affecting a bad attitude toward the Moon Prince, deliberately giving the common people a bad impression of him. All of it was calculated for this purpose. That might even include sending his adopted daughter to the rear palace. Now, that would be something.”

The pigeon went fluttering out of Chue’s hand.

“The west has to pay!”

“Let’s get our food back!”

“Crush the barbarian tribes!”

The people started thrusting their fists in the air. The murderous energy that had been directed toward the Imperial family just moments before had taken on a new focus.

“Master Lakan said this guy was looking to be a hero, but it looks to me like he’s just as good at playing supporting roles. Maybe better, in fact. Don’t you think?”

“What do you mean?” Maomao asked.

“Well, you see? This is a stage, put here by Master Gyoku-ou. He caused the Moon Prince to mount the stage without ever meaning to—heck, he even set him up in the lead role! He apologized exquisitely for the rudeness to the Imperial family and cleared up the people’s misunderstanding in one fell swoop. And now the Moon Prince is standing there looking like a gorgeous actor. Although I guess you could say that at the moment, he and Master Gyoku-ou are sharing the spotlight.”

Maomao understood what Chue was saying. Gyoku-ou had set up the Imperial younger brother and himself—the acting governor of the western capital—as the stars, and cast a foreign people in the role of the enemy. He had said nothing definitive himself, only guided the people to the conclusions he wanted them to reach.

“What if Master Jinshi just stole it back?”

“Do you think he could? This crowd was a powder keg with his name on it until a minute ago. Besides, we’re dealing with people who are easily swayed. The Moon Prince hasn’t said anything untrue—but neither has Master Gyoku-ou. It’s just that the people’s attention has been— shwip! —swapped from the locusts to the foreign people who took their food.”

Maomao followed her point here too. “He doesn’t get his hands dirty. He doesn’t kidnap anyone. But he’s effectively taken a hostage. Clever stuff.”

Chue nodded her agreement. Jinshi began to speak, but he couldn’t offer a direct rebuttal. He only said that he would perform a ritual to expunge the destruction. It was unobjectionable, as Jinshi was wont to be, but it wasn’t enough to completely dispel the people’s misgivings.

Maomao swallowed hard and looked at Chue. “So what is Gyoku-ou after?” she asked, dropping any term of respect for the acting governor in spite of herself.

“Every hero needs a stage. But maybe the western capital isn’t the stage he wants.” Chue peered off to the west. “There must be some reason he’s so eager to start a fight with Shaoh. Something besides simple profit.”

Maomao, too, looked to the western sky. Somewhere over the horizon lay Shaoh, and beyond it, Hokuaren.