“I think he’s already upset just having to deal with the Moon Prince. His Majesty’s younger brother may have a low opinion of himself, but he always manages to get the job done.”

Dahai had to be more than a dozen years older than Jinshi, but it was the prince who held the initiative in this conversation. It looked like he knew something, something important.

Jinshi placed a black lump on the table.

“Would this be the advantage you’re talking about?”

It was some kind of rock. The glossy sheen on its surface made it look like obsidian, but it wasn’t.

“I believe in I-sei Province you call this the burning stone,” Jinshi said.

The burning stone... A stone that burns... Coal?

Maomao remembered what tousle-glasses had written in his letter.

“They say there’s a mountain near the port in Shaoh that produces coal. Take control of the port and one could—and no doubt would—start digging it up, yes?” Jinshi asked. Then he said, “I see that I-sei Province is more desperate for fuel than we are in the central region. Dramatic temperature differences between day and night, no doubt many deaths of freezing in the winter. Without much timber, your main sources of fuel are straw and animal dung, but the supplies of both are unstable. The suggestion that there might be a steady stream of fuel to be had is one that could easily sway an entire family of siblings. Now, here is the question...”

Oh, man, I hate that look.

Jinshi was making the face he always made when he was about to bring Maomao some kind of problem. She’d lost count of the number of times when, in the rear palace, she’d met that unctuous expression with the look of someone observing an upside-down cicada.

“Sir Dahai, neither you nor Sir Gyoku-ou brought up the subject of coal. Why not?” Jinshi asked.

Argh! I really hate that look!

Maomao was starting to sympathize with Dahai. Jinshi could be brutal. He only acted when everything was ready and there was no longer any escape.

“Records show that there used to be mining in I-sei Province—a modest amount, I grant, but it was there. Now you no longer do it. May I ask why not?”

“Can’t a mine dry up?” Dahai replied.

Dahai studied Jinshi for a moment. “What are you saying, sir?” There was a hint of annoyance in his voice.

“Oh, nothing. I’ve simply been wondering what would happen if the central region were to reconsider the value of coal, and perhaps include it on our surveys. What do you suppose would happen if it turned out someone had been hiding coal that they should have been sending to us?”

Lahan’s riddling letter had been a way to try to tell them that I-sei Province had a hidden coal mine.

“All reports of coal mining ceased seventeen years ago. Did something happen in the midst of the chaos surrounding the Yi clan?”

“I’m afraid I don’t know, sir.”

“You’re telling me you’ve been using coal without knowing it?”

“Is that an accusation?”

Dahai and Jinshi squared off. The easy friendliness of their conversation earlier only made this moment harder to bear.

“I’ve heard that the western capital’s ironworks are thoroughly blackened.”

“That happens when you make iron.”

“True. Ash is ash, whether you burn wood or coal.” Maomao thought she saw Jinshi glance in her direction for a split second. “However, the smell—that can’t be hidden, can it? More to the point, we have confirmation of large quantities of coal being brought into the ironworks.”

Chue had told Maomao about coal’s unique smell. It had led them to the ironworks, where they had collected indisputable evidence. Jinshi was very thorough.

Dahai continued to play at being evasive, however. “It’s not so unusual to import coal from other countries. I question how you can be so sure our supply comes from I-sei Province itself.”

“Perhaps you’d let me see your manifests, then. Presumably any imported coal would have to come via ship.” Jinshi’s perfect lips curled into a smile.

“You seem willing to be much firmer with the younger brother than the elder.” Dahai looked openly exasperated.

“When a person has proof, he can be as firm as he wishes.” It was a bit of a fig leaf for the Emperor’s younger brother, but it was his way of signaling that he was not going to simply force matters using his authority. “Besides, we don’t have to make this difficult. I have an easy way out for you.”

After a long moment Dahai said, “I should have known I would never get the better of you.”

“There was a secret agreement with the former emperor—or perhaps I should say with the empress regnant—regarding the use of coal, was there not?” Jinshi asked.

“What would ever give you that notion?”

“You have no idea how prickly the bean counters in the royal capital can get. The mere annihilation of an entire clan would never convince them that they should get less tax money than they did the year before.”

Maomao could just picture Lahan working his abacus, which he always carried despite the fact that he did all his math in his head. It was frankly obnoxious.

“So there was a tacit agreement with the court about the matter of the coal. And yet you come here with your accusations, Moon Prince?”

“I said, didn’t I? That it was a secret agreement with the former empress dowager, the empress regnant. The current sovereign had, and has, no part in it. Say the Emperor doesn’t know about it, or knows but stays silent. How would people react if I spoke up? I can already see the gleam in the eyes of the Board of Revenue. They would demand seventeen years’ worth of back taxes, every last pebble they’re owed. Yes, I think that would cause a reevaluation of the worth of coal.”

Had he really needed a charge? He seemed well in control of this situation.

“Are you threatening me? Here I thought you had saved our people from the depredations of the grasshoppers. Has it been your true aim all along to ravage us in their stead?”

“It was merely a suggestion. Did I not tell you that there was an easy way out? Let’s say I am all too ignorant in these matters. I hardly know coal exists, let alone what it’s worth. It’s just a bunch of stones. Good enough?”

“And...what do you ask in exchange for this ignorance?” Dahai scowled at Jinshi.

“To be quite frank, I see no advantages in making war. A man is welcome to gamble with his own money if he wishes—but I cannot approve of dragging the entire country into such a wager. Should Sir Gyoku-ou use the occasion of my ritual to make anything resembling a declaration of war, I expect the people to be very much on his side. I may object, but I could easily see us sliding into an invasion of another country just the same.”

“You’re saying you wish me to stop my elder brother’s plan, then?”

“Precisely. If there is war, I think the consequences to you will be far more dire than an investigation into coal by the royal capital. But Sir Gyoku-ou will be unable to make any war without your ships to carry the invasion force.”

It was as Jinshi said. Maomao pictured a map of the region in her mind as best she could. I-sei Province was home to vast plains, where food was scarce. An invasion entirely overland seemed impossible.

“I also think it’s you, Sir Dahai, who understands best of all the problems that can be caused by strife among siblings. Do you think you could bring some of the others around if you used my name?”

“Would there be any advantage to me in doing such a thing?”

“As I said. Coal is merely a rock, worthless to the central region.”

Maomao sipped her tea, long gone cold, and felt a pang of sympathy for Dahai. It had to hurt, being tied into knots by a boy more than ten years his junior. But if it did, that pain wasn’t apparent on his face.

Puzzled, Maomao turned to Chue, who was looking sadly at the very last of the fried dough twists.

“Miss Chue, Miss Chue,” she said.

“Yes, Miss Maomao? What is it?”

“I just had a thought. Is this what they call a rigged game?” she asked idly.

“Hoo hoo hoo! It’s tough being on top, isn’t it? You need a good pretext to convince any of the siblings!”

Maomao realized why Dahai looked so placid even as Jinshi used him mercilessly. He was, and always had been, on Jinshi’s side. But there was a hierarchy to the sibling relationships; he couldn’t just bull around doing what he pleased. He needed there to be some reason he was forced to cooperate with Jinshi, and he had come here to get it.

Suddenly, Maomao felt stupid for having been on tenterhooks the entire time.

A charge, my ass!
 The cold sweat—all of it felt silly. 
God, I hate politics.

Maomao was reminded, painfully, of why she loathed being involved with anything political.