“Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother is in charge of the port. It’s thanks to him that we were able to rent out the inn district. He was very receptive—he seems to be on good terms with Empress Gyokuyou.”

“So he’s the mysterious connection.” But then Maomao stopped and tilted her head. “Huh? If he has all that power, why wouldn’t he speak up about what’s going on in the western capital right now? And what about all the other siblings?”

There were apparently thirteen of them, and Maomao only knew about three. Weren’t the children of powerful people supposed to squabble more?

“I think that has something to do with the way Master Gyokuen educated his kids. Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother’s mother was a sailor. And all the other mothers each work in a particular field.”

“So basically, the siblings all follow in their mothers’ footsteps?”

“Pretty much. Master Gyokuen has a talent for more than just collecting wives. He brings exceptional people in each field into his family. Just like how he maneuvered his way right into the Imperial bloodline!”

As a merchant, nothing Gyokuen did was wasted. He had sent Empress Gyokuyou to the rear palace, armed with the twin weapons of her beauty and wit.

“All right, but let’s be frank. Master Gyokuen’s only actual successor is Master Gyoku-ou, right? I know he’s the eldest son and all, but the other siblings really don’t have any problem with that?” Maomao asked. The bigger a household was and the more assets it had, the more likely family strife was to break out. Eleven wives and thirteen children seemed like a recipe for disaster in that department.

“Master Gyokuen’s wives appear to have a hierarchy. A nice, clear division between Master Gyoku-ou’s mother, his official wife, and the rest, who are all concubines.”

“I see.” Gyokuen had only one “true” wife, Gyoku-ou’s mother—the rest were merely mistresses he had taken to forge specific relationships.

He’s more ruthless than he looks. Gyokuen came across like a pleasant, not to say doddering, old man, but Maomao found her image of him completely changed.

“I understand what he’s doing, then, but I can’t help thinking his many wives’ many families might have something to say about it.”

“By all appearances, he’s handled that situation very well.” Chue stuffed some mooncake into her mouth and peeped out through the curtain. Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother was reporting on the situation of the foreigners holed up at the inns.

“We’re managing so far, somehow,” he was saying.

“That’s a great help,” Jinshi replied. “Even if one considers the current emergency an extenuating circumstance, an attack by the people here upon the foreign population could quickly spiral into a diplomatic incident.”

“A diplomatic incident,” the tanned man repeated with some sarcasm. “Depending on how my older brother plays his cards, it may turn out there was no point to me hiding anyone.”

That was a very unsettling thing to hear. Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother was built like a rough-and-ready sailor, but he seemed to know how to put on a polite tone in front of the Emperor’s younger brother.

“If you’ll forgive my saying so, Sir Gyoku-ou seems set on war. How has he behaved among you siblings?” Jinshi asked.

“I couldn’t say for certain, but I have an idea.” Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother clasped his gnarled hands. “All of us called our eldest brother’s mother Lady Seibo, ‘the Western Mother.’ Perhaps you know that she was formerly a member of the Windreader tribe?”

“Yes, I’ve heard.”

Perhaps the name was derived from that of the goddess Sei-ou-bo, the Western Queen Mother; or perhaps they called her that because she was the “mother” of the western capital. Or maybe her name even included the character for “west.” Maomao didn’t know.

“Lady Seibo was a kind woman, very concerned for those who had formerly been members of her tribe. She went with our father on his business expeditions, and any time she saw a former Windreader among the slaves, she would free them, or so I’ve been told.”

“That would mean Sir Gyoku-ou went with her?”

“Yes, sir. A great many members of the Windreader tribe were found in Shaoh. Many of them had been viciously mistreated by the people there; they were practically skin and bones. My mother met many of them in their last moments.”

Maomao listened. This sort of made sense to her...but sort of didn’t. Chue seemed to be of the same opinion; she was frowning.

“What do you think, Miss Maomao?” she asked.

“I’m not sure how to answer that. It would certainly be one reason to want to go to war, but it seems like it must be just one reason out of many.”

That was her honest opinion. She understood it, as a justification, but on its own it was too little. Wanting revenge for one’s people was understandable, but tribes all over the plains had attacked the former Windreaders. Meanwhile, foreigners hardly had a monopoly on mistreating their slaves. As a political matter, such things were barely more than excuses.

Jinshi, as it turned out, had much the same questions as Maomao and Chue.

“Is that the only reason?” he asked bluntly. “I realize Sir Gyoku-ou is your eldest sibling, but surely that doesn’t silence the younger members of the family completely. Is it not precisely because you disagree with him, Sir Dahai, that you were willing to entertain what I had to say?”

So Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother’s name was Dahai. It meant “Great Sea,” certainly an appropriate name for a sailor.

But he doesn’t have “gyoku” in his name.

That, Maomao realized, was the sign that this man didn’t stand in the line of succession. She wondered if Gyokuyou had always had the “gyoku” element in her name because of her exceptional qualities, or if she had changed her name when she entered the rear palace.

“I presume Sir Gyoku-ou can’t afford to ignore the master of the harbors just because that man is his younger brother. What did he use to negotiate with you?” Jinshi asked.

Dahai flinched, but then smiled. “You should get out among the people more, Moon Prince. Then they might cease to believe that you’re nothing but a figurehead.”

“Get out among the people and do what? Would you have me paraded around like a portable shrine at a festival?” Jinshi continued to look every inch the royal, but his tone had grown rather informal. He must have already met this man several times before; Maomao just hadn’t known about it. Otherwise, Dahai would never have dared to speak as frankly as he just had.

“My eldest brother tempted me with the rights to Shaoh’s ports. Currently, ships from other countries pay through the nose to use them. Products from a great many lands find their way to Shaoh, coming on a great many ships, and Shaoh has them all over a barrel. They need those ports. My brother informed me of his intention to take the ports and put me in charge of them. I would clear at least this much easily.”

He held up five fingers to indicate the amount. Maomao couldn’t even imagine that many zeros.

“And?”

“And what?”

“He may speak of giving you rights, but all I see is a drastic increase in your workload. As capable as you are, Sir Dahai, even you can’t single-handedly manage two major ports with foreign ships coming and going. Unless you have some plan for splitting yourself in half and becoming two people? Have you become a master of the immortals’ arts without my knowing it?” Jinshi was teasing—taunting—him.

Dahai’s expression didn’t change. “I have someone who serves as my right hand. And my left. And both feet. I’ll let them handle things.”

“You’d send your most valuable people to a land that seems set to become a battlefield? I’d heard mariners valued their shipmates, but perhaps I was misinformed.” Now Jinshi was openly provoking the other man.

What’s he up to? Just witnessing this was enough to put Maomao’s nerves on edge. It had to be taking a toll on both Jinshi and Dahai. Now I see why he wanted a “charge.” It had to be mentally and emotionally draining to keep up this conversation.

“Perhaps that suggests to you how important these rights are,” Dahai said.

“Very well. Then what’s keeping the rest of your siblings quiet? There can’t be many carrots as large as those harbor rights. If anything, I would expect the opposite—that they would find the costs of invading another country unduly burdensome.”

After a moment, Dahai said, “I have no doubt my brother explained to each of our siblings the advantages of supporting him.”

Maomao and Chue were still peeking from behind the curtain. They were out of mooncakes, and Chue had moved on to nibbling on a fried dough twist.

“Are you sure I should be seeing this?” Maomao asked her.

“Sure, it’s fine!”

“No, I mean... If Dahai found out, wouldn’t he be upset?” Maomao knew she would be, if she found out that some ladies-in-waiting had been eavesdropping on secret conversations she’d been having.

True enough.

Did Empress Gyokuyou give him some kind of inside information? No, wait...

“Did it?”

Stupid, stupid face!