Chapter 16: Gyokuen’s Children

Maomao watched Jinshi smack his head into a post. It was practically comical, seeing him bash himself against a pillar in the sumptuous chamber, surrounded by attendants.

“Young master, at least use this,” Suiren said, inserting a wadded-up cotton jacket between Jinshi’s head and the pillar. The sound went from 
thump thump
 to 
bompf bompf
, which only made it seem sillier. Suiren didn’t go so far as to try to stop him.

“He played me!”

“Like a two-stringed fiddle, sir.”

“You’re mocking me!”

“Yes I am, sir.”

Maomao had her hands full trying to offer noncommittal responses. Just agreeing with everything Jinshi said was better than letting herself slip and accidentally try to suggest an actual solution. It was the same way she dealt with huffy courtesans; it always calmed them down.

“Are you even listening to me?!” Jinshi demanded.

“I’m listening, sir.”

Apparently, it was still the wrong choice. In this case, instead of offering inoffensive comments, she should have tried to suggest a solution. But at that moment, Maomao didn’t even have any ideas to offer.

Neither did the rest of Jinshi’s entourage.

Gaoshun was the first to speak. “Moon Prince, has there been any communication from Empress Gyokuyou since then?”

When’s “then”? Maomao wondered. She knew Jinshi and the Empress had been in touch with each other about Gyoku-ou’s daughter. Was that what he meant?

“Communication? Yes. But I don’t think she’s in a good position to deal with Sir Gyoku-ou. For one thing, the Empress would have no way to know about this most recent event. Even if I contacted her as urgently as I could, I doubt it would be in time. But thankfully, she’s already put me in touch with certain other connections.”

Makes sense. Even the members of a single family were hardly going to be in lockstep. Maomao wondered who these connections were.

“What about Master Gyokuen, then?” Basen asked.

Jinshi paused for a second, then said, “I can’t be certain, but I doubt Sir Gyokuen had a hand in this. I’ve kept him apprised of the situation here, but there are certain things that I think he wishes to leave to his son’s judgment. He sends only the most ambiguous answers. I can only imagine that what he writes to Sir Gyoku-ou is quite different from what he writes to me.”

“You don’t suppose that his answers conflict with the report you’re getting, Master Jinshi?” Taomei asked. She seemed to be wondering if Jinshi’s letters were reaching Gyokuen at all.

“At the moment, I don’t think so.”

“I would agree,” came a voice from behind a curtain. Maomao was caught off guard for a moment, but then realized it was Gaoshun’s other son, Baryou. Chue flitted over and nudged the drape.

He’s gotten used to us enough to speak, huh?

She had no idea, though, how many more times she might have to visit before she saw his face. Maybe he would open up to her if she wore a duck mask.

Gaoshun picked up the thought. “Master Gyokuen’s policy was always to be on friendly terms with neighboring countries—and thus to keep them in check. He might make ‘suggestions’ or negotiate sometimes, but he never made an open declaration of hostility. I think that means it’s safe to assume Master Gyoku-ou did this on his personal initiative. At the same time, I can see why Master Gyokuen might hesitate to criticize his son’s approach.”

“Sir Gyokuen isn’t a young man anymore. He can’t be forever meddling in his son’s affairs,” Jinshi said.

True enough.

“Exactly, sir. Moreover, there must be more than a few among the populace who are dissatisfied with the way Master Gyokuen has done things. Master Gyoku-ou’s core group of supporters must include many disaffected former believers in Master Gyokuen.”

“One suspects.” Jinshi set the cotton jacket aside and sat down. “After all, not all the neighbors around here are necessarily good people.”

Maomao recalled a marriage ceremony that had taken place in the western capital last year. The wife-to-be, aghast at the idea of being taken to Shaoh by her husband, had tried to fake her own suicide in order to disappear. The entire family had been in on it, and solving the case hadn’t made them any more eager to go through with the wedding.

They said the foreigners brand their wives like livestock.

There weren’t that many idiots in the world who would deliberately let someone press a hot brand into their skin of their own volition. In fact, as far as Maomao knew, there was only one.

For that matter, he did it to himself.

She glowered at that idiot even as she mulled the present circumstances over in her mind. So the people were upset with the Emperor’s younger brother, and Gyoku-ou intervened. He somehow managed to blame everything on the foreigners, and now Jinshi is going to perform some kind of ritual.

From the sound of things, this ritual had less to do with expunging sickness and more with making ready for the coming war.

At that moment, Jinshi had managed to put off the ritual, briefly, but now he was trying to figure out what to do.

“I don’t suppose Sir Gyokuen would come home,” Jinshi mumbled, but they all knew that was impossible.

“Unfortunately, sir, I don’t think that will happen,” Gaoshun said.

“You can’t rely on others to solve your problems,” Taomei added. Well, that accounted for both husband and wife.

This conversation didn’t look like it was going anywhere fast. Maomao wasn’t even sure why she was here. She had been summoned for the first time in several days, but before she’d had a chance to inspect Jinshi’s burn, he was starting in on his trials and tribulations.

Miss Chue...
 Maomao thought grudgingly of the whimsical lady-in-waiting who had brought her here.

Maomao decided to try to get them back on track, by force if necessary. “I understand you’re worried, sir, but the general thrust of the ritual has been determined, hasn’t it?”

“Yes,” Jinshi said slowly. “It’s this.” He showed her a piece of paper. It had two characters on it: 
land
 and 
pacification
.

“The pacification of the land?”

“It was Vice Minister Lu’s idea. He said this would be an appropriate justification for a state ceremony.”

“I’ve heard of this kind of ritual...but not often.”

“You understand what it means for this to be a state ceremony, don’t you?”

“Yes, sir. It’s usually a ritual His Majesty the Emperor performs to venerate the ancestors and spirits, isn’t it?”

“That’s right. But when His Majesty is too busy to perform such a ceremony himself, I may perform it in his stead.”

In fact, one such performance had led to an attempt on his life. If Maomao had studied more diligently for the court ladies’ examination during her time as Jinshi’s lady-in-waiting, she might have figured out his true identity sooner.

“Would you like to know the details of the ceremony?” Jinshi asked.

Maomao didn’t mince words. “No thank you, sir. Just tell me exactly what it means to ‘pacify the land.’”

“Very well. Typically these ceremonies have to do with venerating the ancestors and the spirits, or sometimes the heavens and the earth. In this case, however, since we’re far from the capital, the suggestion was that perhaps the ritual should be focused on placating the local guardian spirit. In short, we pray to the devastated land that it will yield forth a rich harvest.”

“If I may be so bold, sir, it sort of sounds like you just made up a new ritual out of whole cloth.”

“Maybe not 
whole
 cloth. They say such rituals are practiced on the islands to the east.”

“Let me see if I’m understanding you. Your hands would be tied if, immediately after the Emperor’s younger brother had venerated the spirits, Master Gyoku-ou were to make a declaration of war on another country. Suppose that, instead, you didn’t venerate the spirits generally, but only the very specific spirit of this area? What if the object of the ritual extended no farther than the borders of I-sei Province? Is that what you’re thinking?”

“You show remarkably sharp insight for someone who claims not to understand politics,” Jinshi said. Funny thing to be impressed by.

“It seems that you would be deliberately placing yourself outside the scope of your own ceremony.”

“Yes, as would Vice Minister Lu, who originally came up with this idea. If we’re lucky—very lucky—Sir Gyoku-ou simply won’t try anything.”

In concrete terms, Jinshi was worried that Gyoku-ou would take the occasion of the ritual to make an open declaration of war on another nation.

“He hasn’t done anything outwardly yet, has he?” Maomao asked.

“No. He talked to myself and Sir Lakan about the possibility of war, but he hasn’t made any public moves. He was only sounding us out; he judged that he couldn’t act without our support.”

This was what made Gyoku-ou a dangerous man: he wasn’t going to go to war by himself; he sought to drag everyone else along with him.

The people of the western capital trusted Gyoku-ou implicitly, and the policy he was now contemplating was inspired by their views. It might indeed make them think he was a fine acting governor—but the world was not so simple.

The people of the western capital had their feelings. Their anger had to go somewhere. It had been pointed at the Imperial younger brother—and now it was pointed at a foreign nation. A simple solution in the short term, but a bad decision in the longer view.

“I opposed Sir Gyoku-ou’s plans, so he’s taken more forceful measures.”

“Yes. Disgusting measures. He ought to be good enough to declare the war himself and suffer the consequences himself,” Taomei spat.

“Now, that’s enough,” Gaoshun broke in. Basen might look like his father, but maybe he got his hot blood from his mother.

And this when there are so many foreigners in I-sei Province , Maomao thought, worried for the danger this might put them in. “How many foreign people are there in the western capital right now?” she asked. She’d seen the state of the crowd. If that mob happened across anyone with foreign blood, there seemed likely to be a violent attack. Where would the foreigners be hiding?

“That’s been taken care of by someone with a talent for such things. The strategist,” Jinshi said.

“That old fart?” Maomao shot back, scowling.

“As soon as the first wave of grasshoppers hit, he brought all the foreign merchant groups to a single place where they could be protected. Because, according to him, it would be ‘a pain’ to have them jumbled everywhere.”

“Do you think he 
really
 understands what’s going on?”

The freak with the monocle did everything on instinct, so it could be hard to fathom his actions.

“Many of the merchants went back home by sea, or continued overland to Kaoh Province. Even so, about a hundred of them remain in the western capital.”

“Is there anywhere they can hide?”

“The people here are not monolithic. Some are xenophobic, yes, but others see foreign people as invaluable neighbors. There’s an inn town near the port that caters to foreigners. He rented the entire place out.”

“That’s a pretty good trick.”

“Indeed. He knew just the person to ask. In fact, they should be joining us shortly.”

“Ahem... If we’re going to have a visitor, I’d like to wrap up my work here and get back,” Maomao said. The only person currently at the medical office was the quack doctor, who’d managed to sleep through the last major commotion. Meanwhile, it wasn’t just medicine they were out of. There weren’t enough bandages either, so Maomao had been planning to tear up some unused sheets to make new ones.

“I’m afraid our honorable guest has already arrived,” said Chue. Most unwelcome news.

Jinshi smirked. “You heard her. Wait in back if you would.”

“Yes, sir... But where’s ‘in back’?” Maomao looked around the room.

“Here, Miss Maomao, this way.” Chue urged her to a corner that was curtained off from the rest of the room. Behind it was a table and two chairs, the table already set with tea snacks. The space was small but not cramped. “It was so unfair that only my hubby got a spot. Miss Chue made one for herself too.”

“Wow! It’s so cozy,” Maomao said.

“Yes indeedy! If you need more snacks, they’re on the top shelf. Would you like tea or juice?”

“Tea, please.”

“Coming right up!” Chue bustled through a curtain on the other side.

“Maomao.” She heard Jinshi from the other side of the curtain. “I think things are going to get tiring. I need a charge.” His hand poked through the drapes.

“A charge?” Maomao asked.

She studied the shelf Chue had indicated. She took a mooncake wrapped in paper from a basket on the shelf and pressed it into Jinshi’s hand.

“Huh?!”

The mooncake dropped to the ground. The paper came off and, sadly, it touched the floor. Maomao moved to pick it up, but her right hand was caught by Jinshi’s. She felt his fingers slide between hers as if to make sure she was there. The fact they were both using their right hands made it oddly awkward.

Jinshi’s long fingers pressed into the back of Maomao’s hand, while his palm pressed against hers. She could feel his pulse. His nails were neatly trimmed, but she could feel the calluses on his palm. Ink stained the tips of his fingers, and there was a sheen of sweat on his hand.

Maomao’s palm had started sweating as well. She was hoping to get away before it got too bad. “Sir? What are you doing?” she asked.

“I told you. Charging.”

“
Charging.
”

Dammit, so he 
hadn’t
 been talking about getting some extra sugar? She looked reproachfully at the mooncake on the floor.

“I wanted to do it before I had to start pushing myself too hard.”

“Maybe just 
don’t
 push yourself too hard?”

Maomao breathed slowly, trying to keep her heart rate down, trying to keep the flush out of her cheeks and hands. Even so, her heartbeat and the sweating got away from her, and she could feel her hand growing slick.

“Only the most incompetent of leaders would find that an option, I’m afraid.”

“If you let someone else steal credit for everything you do, you don’t look like much of a leader anyway.”

“That doesn’t bother me. Those who know will know, and that’s enough.” He squeezed her hand tighter. Then the quality of his voice changed: “Our visitor is here.”

“You must pardon my intrusion, Moon Prince,” a man’s voice said.

“Not at all. My apologies for summoning you when you’re so busy,” Jinshi replied easily, but his hand remained wrapped around Maomao’s.

Is he going to hold the whole conversation this way?

Jinshi’s back was to Maomao, but she couldn’t even see that because of the curtain between them. All she knew was that his right hand was growing increasingly sweaty, betraying the emotions that he couldn’t allow to show on his face.

Who was this visitor he was entertaining? What expression was he leveling at them? Did they really not realize that Maomao was right there, just out of sight?

She couldn’t stand it anymore. She pinched the back of Jinshi’s right hand with her left.

This doesn’t count as disrespect! It doesn’t!

“Please, be seated,” Jinshi said. Was it her imagination, or had his voice gone up an octave? At last Maomao worked her hand free, and his disappeared past the other side of the curtain.

Maomao held up her hand and inspected it. There were faint red marks on the back.

“Charging, huh?” she muttered.

“Who’s charging?”

Maomao just about jumped out of her skin and was lucky not to cry out. Chue was standing there with a tea platter.

“It’s nothing,” Maomao said.

“Really? Aww, look, you dropped your mooncake.” She grabbed it off the floor, blew the dust off it—and ate it. Then she said, “You don’t look very relaxed, Miss Maomao.”

“It’s your imagination, Miss Chue.” She tried her best to seem calm as they whispered back and forth.

“Okay, we’ll say it’s my imagination.”

Maomao didn’t answer immediately. She could never tell how much Chue actually knew. Instead she sat in one of the chairs and sipped her tea quietly. She could see the visitor through the gap in the curtain. “Isn’t he going to notice us watching him?” she asked.

“Not to worry. Lady Suiren is keeping an eye out to make sure he doesn’t see us. And he won’t hear us as long as we keep our voices down like this.”

If Suiren thought it wasn’t a problem, then it was fine.

The visitor looked to be in his mid-thirties, with tanned skin and red hair that seemed more weathered by the sun and sea breeze than due to foreign blood. Jinshi and the man sat across from each other at a table; Maomao and Chue could see them both in profile.

“Who is he?” Maomao asked.

“One of Master Gyokuen’s sons!”

A sibling to Empress Gyokuyou and Gyoku-ou, then.

“But he doesn’t look like either of them,” Maomao observed.

“That’s true. He has a different mother. Master Gyokuen has eleven wives and thirteen children.”

Maomao was quiet for a moment. Many rich men had a mistress or two in addition to their official wife, and apparently the easygoing old governor was no exception.

“That man there is his third son. His name is—well, you probably wouldn’t remember if I told you, so maybe we can just call him Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother.”

Chue was very offhand for someone saying something so rude, but as it was the undeniable truth, Maomao didn’t object. Instead she said, “Like Lahan’s Brother, you mean? Makes sense. I like it.”

“Yes, exactly. Just be aware that unlike Lahan’s Brother, this man 
does
 have a real, actual name.”

Was she implying that Lahan’s Brother didn’t?