This was what made Gyoku-ou a dangerous man: he wasn’t going to go to war by himself; he sought to drag everyone else along with him.

The people of the western capital trusted Gyoku-ou implicitly, and the policy he was now contemplating was inspired by their views. It might indeed make them think he was a fine acting governor—but the world was not so simple.

The people of the western capital had their feelings. Their anger had to go somewhere. It had been pointed at the Imperial younger brother—and now it was pointed at a foreign nation. A simple solution in the short term, but a bad decision in the longer view.

“Yes. Disgusting measures. He ought to be good enough to declare the war himself and suffer the consequences himself,” Taomei spat.

“Now, that’s enough,” Gaoshun broke in. Basen might look like his father, but maybe he got his hot blood from his mother.

And this when there are so many foreigners in I-sei Province , Maomao thought, worried for the danger this might put them in. “How many foreign people are there in the western capital right now?” she asked. She’d seen the state of the crowd. If that mob happened across anyone with foreign blood, there seemed likely to be a violent attack. Where would the foreigners be hiding?

“That’s been taken care of by someone with a talent for such things. The strategist,” Jinshi said.

“That old fart?” Maomao shot back, scowling.

“As soon as the first wave of grasshoppers hit, he brought all the foreign merchant groups to a single place where they could be protected. Because, according to him, it would be ‘a pain’ to have them jumbled everywhere.”

“Do you think he 
really
 understands what’s going on?”

The freak with the monocle did everything on instinct, so it could be hard to fathom his actions.

“Many of the merchants went back home by sea, or continued overland to Kaoh Province. Even so, about a hundred of them remain in the western capital.”

“Is there anywhere they can hide?”

“The people here are not monolithic. Some are xenophobic, yes, but others see foreign people as invaluable neighbors. There’s an inn town near the port that caters to foreigners. He rented the entire place out.”

“Indeed. He knew just the person to ask. In fact, they should be joining us shortly.”

“Ahem... If we’re going to have a visitor, I’d like to wrap up my work here and get back,” Maomao said. The only person currently at the medical office was the quack doctor, who’d managed to sleep through the last major commotion. Meanwhile, it wasn’t just medicine they were out of. There weren’t enough bandages either, so Maomao had been planning to tear up some unused sheets to make new ones.

“I’m afraid our honorable guest has already arrived,” said Chue. Most unwelcome news.

Jinshi smirked. “You heard her. Wait in back if you would.”

“Yes, sir... But where’s ‘in back’?” Maomao looked around the room.

“Here, Miss Maomao, this way.” Chue urged her to a corner that was curtained off from the rest of the room. Behind it was a table and two chairs, the table already set with tea snacks. The space was small but not cramped. “It was so unfair that only my hubby got a spot. Miss Chue made one for herself too.”

“Wow! It’s so cozy,” Maomao said.

“Yes indeedy! If you need more snacks, they’re on the top shelf. Would you like tea or juice?”

“Tea, please.”

“Coming right up!” Chue bustled through a curtain on the other side.

“Maomao.” She heard Jinshi from the other side of the curtain. “I think things are going to get tiring. I need a charge.” His hand poked through the drapes.

“A charge?” Maomao asked.

She studied the shelf Chue had indicated. She took a mooncake wrapped in paper from a basket on the shelf and pressed it into Jinshi’s hand.

“Huh?!”

The mooncake dropped to the ground. The paper came off and, sadly, it touched the floor. Maomao moved to pick it up, but her right hand was caught by Jinshi’s. She felt his fingers slide between hers as if to make sure she was there. The fact they were both using their right hands made it oddly awkward.

Jinshi’s long fingers pressed into the back of Maomao’s hand, while his palm pressed against hers. She could feel his pulse. His nails were neatly trimmed, but she could feel the calluses on his palm. Ink stained the tips of his fingers, and there was a sheen of sweat on his hand.

Maomao’s palm had started sweating as well. She was hoping to get away before it got too bad. “Sir? What are you doing?” she asked.

“I told you. Charging.”

“
Charging.
”

Dammit, so he 
hadn’t
 been talking about getting some extra sugar? She looked reproachfully at the mooncake on the floor.

“I wanted to do it before I had to start pushing myself too hard.”

“Maybe just 
don’t
 push yourself too hard?”

Maomao breathed slowly, trying to keep her heart rate down, trying to keep the flush out of her cheeks and hands. Even so, her heartbeat and the sweating got away from her, and she could feel her hand growing slick.

“Only the most incompetent of leaders would find that an option, I’m afraid.”

“If you let someone else steal credit for everything you do, you don’t look like much of a leader anyway.”

“That doesn’t bother me. Those who know will know, and that’s enough.” He squeezed her hand tighter. Then the quality of his voice changed: “Our visitor is here.”

“You must pardon my intrusion, Moon Prince,” a man’s voice said.

“Not at all. My apologies for summoning you when you’re so busy,” Jinshi replied easily, but his hand remained wrapped around Maomao’s.

Is he going to hold the whole conversation this way?

Jinshi’s back was to Maomao, but she couldn’t even see that because of the curtain between them. All she knew was that his right hand was growing increasingly sweaty, betraying the emotions that he couldn’t allow to show on his face.

Who was this visitor he was entertaining? What expression was he leveling at them? Did they really not realize that Maomao was right there, just out of sight?

She couldn’t stand it anymore. She pinched the back of Jinshi’s right hand with her left.

This doesn’t count as disrespect! It doesn’t!

“Please, be seated,” Jinshi said. Was it her imagination, or had his voice gone up an octave? At last Maomao worked her hand free, and his disappeared past the other side of the curtain.

Maomao held up her hand and inspected it. There were faint red marks on the back.

“Charging, huh?” she muttered.

“Who’s charging?”

Maomao just about jumped out of her skin and was lucky not to cry out. Chue was standing there with a tea platter.

“It’s nothing,” Maomao said.

“Really? Aww, look, you dropped your mooncake.” She grabbed it off the floor, blew the dust off it—and ate it. Then she said, “You don’t look very relaxed, Miss Maomao.”

“It’s your imagination, Miss Chue.” She tried her best to seem calm as they whispered back and forth.

“Okay, we’ll say it’s my imagination.”

Maomao didn’t answer immediately. She could never tell how much Chue actually knew. Instead she sat in one of the chairs and sipped her tea quietly. She could see the visitor through the gap in the curtain. “Isn’t he going to notice us watching him?” she asked.

“Not to worry. Lady Suiren is keeping an eye out to make sure he doesn’t see us. And he won’t hear us as long as we keep our voices down like this.”

If Suiren thought it wasn’t a problem, then it was fine.

The visitor looked to be in his mid-thirties, with tanned skin and red hair that seemed more weathered by the sun and sea breeze than due to foreign blood. Jinshi and the man sat across from each other at a table; Maomao and Chue could see them both in profile.

“Who is he?” Maomao asked.

“One of Master Gyokuen’s sons!”

A sibling to Empress Gyokuyou and Gyoku-ou, then.

“But he doesn’t look like either of them,” Maomao observed.

“That’s true. He has a different mother. Master Gyokuen has eleven wives and thirteen children.”

Maomao was quiet for a moment. Many rich men had a mistress or two in addition to their official wife, and apparently the easygoing old governor was no exception.

“That man there is his third son. His name is—well, you probably wouldn’t remember if I told you, so maybe we can just call him Gyoku-ou’s Little Brother.”

Chue was very offhand for someone saying something so rude, but as it was the undeniable truth, Maomao didn’t object. Instead she said, “Like Lahan’s Brother, you mean? Makes sense. I like it.”

“Yes, exactly. Just be aware that unlike Lahan’s Brother, this man 
does
 have a real, actual name.”

Was she implying that Lahan’s Brother didn’t?