After a long moment Dahai said, “I should have known I would never get the better of you.”

“There was a secret agreement with the former emperor—or perhaps I should say with the empress regnant—regarding the use of coal, was there not?” Jinshi asked.

“You have no idea how prickly the bean counters in the royal capital can get. The mere annihilation of an entire clan would never convince them that they should get less tax money than they did the year before.”

Maomao could just picture Lahan working his abacus, which he always carried despite the fact that he did all his math in his head. It was frankly obnoxious.

“So there was a tacit agreement with the court about the matter of the coal. And yet you come here with your accusations, Moon Prince?”

“I said, didn’t I? That it was a secret agreement with the former empress dowager, the empress regnant. The current sovereign had, and has, no part in it. Say the Emperor doesn’t know about it, or knows but stays silent. How would people react if I spoke up? I can already see the gleam in the eyes of the Board of Revenue. They would demand seventeen years’ worth of back taxes, every last pebble they’re owed. Yes, I think that would cause a reevaluation of the worth of coal.”

Had he really needed a charge? He seemed well in control of this situation.

“Are you threatening me? Here I thought you had saved our people from the depredations of the grasshoppers. Has it been your true aim all along to ravage us in their stead?”

“It was merely a suggestion. Did I not tell you that there was an easy way out? Let’s say I am all too ignorant in these matters. I hardly know coal exists, let alone what it’s worth. It’s just a bunch of stones. Good enough?”

“And...what do you ask in exchange for this ignorance?” Dahai scowled at Jinshi.

“To be quite frank, I see no advantages in making war. A man is welcome to gamble with his own money if he wishes—but I cannot approve of dragging the entire country into such a wager. Should Sir Gyoku-ou use the occasion of my ritual to make anything resembling a declaration of war, I expect the people to be very much on his side. I may object, but I could easily see us sliding into an invasion of another country just the same.”

“You’re saying you wish me to stop my elder brother’s plan, then?”

“Precisely. If there is war, I think the consequences to you will be far more dire than an investigation into coal by the royal capital. But Sir Gyoku-ou will be unable to make any war without your ships to carry the invasion force.”

It was as Jinshi said. Maomao pictured a map of the region in her mind as best she could. I-sei Province was home to vast plains, where food was scarce. An invasion entirely overland seemed impossible.

“I also think it’s you, Sir Dahai, who understands best of all the problems that can be caused by strife among siblings. Do you think you could bring some of the others around if you used my name?”

“Would there be any advantage to me in doing such a thing?”

“As I said. Coal is merely a rock, worthless to the central region.”

Maomao sipped her tea, long gone cold, and felt a pang of sympathy for Dahai. It had to hurt, being tied into knots by a boy more than ten years his junior. But if it did, that pain wasn’t apparent on his face.

Puzzled, Maomao turned to Chue, who was looking sadly at the very last of the fried dough twists.

“Miss Chue, Miss Chue,” she said.

“Yes, Miss Maomao? What is it?”

“I just had a thought. Is this what they call a rigged game?” she asked idly.

“Hoo hoo hoo! It’s tough being on top, isn’t it? You need a good pretext to convince any of the siblings!”

Maomao realized why Dahai looked so placid even as Jinshi used him mercilessly. He was, and always had been, on Jinshi’s side. But there was a hierarchy to the sibling relationships; he couldn’t just bull around doing what he pleased. He needed there to be some reason he was forced to cooperate with Jinshi, and he had come here to get it.

Suddenly, Maomao felt stupid for having been on tenterhooks the entire time.

A charge, my ass!
 The cold sweat—all of it felt silly. 
God, I hate politics.

Maomao was reminded, painfully, of why she loathed being involved with anything political.