“What do you think, young lady? Shall we go up?” the quack doctor asked, heading up the stairs with his steamed potato in hand. He and Maomao had to stay and watch the medical office, but the plaza was visible from the third floor of the annex, and they decided to watch from there.

Maomao had suggested that she should go to the ritual site in case anything happened, but Jinshi had rejected that idea. He seemed to think his life would be far harder if Maomao got hurt than if he himself did.

I don’t really expect Jinshi to be injured, anyway—and the freak strategist 
is
 at the ceremony. 
If Maomao were there too, he seemed likely to interrupt proceedings.

Instead she got to watch from the third floor of their building, which had an excellent view and a nice breeze. In the room with her and the quack were Chue, Lihaku, the duck, and, for some reason, Lahan’s Brother.

“What? You think it’s wrong of me to be here?” Lahan’s Brother asked, glowering at her. The duck raised her bill in imitation of his expression. Lahan’s Brother must have been looking after the duck for Basen, who was serving as Jinshi’s bodyguard.

“Did I say anything out loud?”

“I saw it on your face. It hurts to know I was right.”

“I’m sorry.” Maomao tried to make Lahan’s Brother feel better by offering him a steamed potato, but he jumped back, saying he’d had more than enough of them. The duck comforted him.

“I can see them, but it’s so far away. They’re all so small,” the quack said, squinting. The stage was visible from where they were, but they couldn’t make out the participants’ faces. They could still tell which one was Jinshi, though—even at this distance, he was obnoxiously unmissable.

“That’s a good thing. From this far away, even the best archer couldn’t hit them,” remarked Chue, a rather unsettling thing to say. Maomao scanned the buildings near the plaza; the only ones as tall as the annex were the administrative office and the main house.

The quack squinted some more. “I feel like an arrow could reach from farther away than where we are.” From their room to the center of the plaza was perhaps two hundred meters in a straight line.

“With a longbow or a crossbow, maybe, but how would you hit anything like that? And even if by some miracle you did, the arrow would never have the force to actually kill whoever it hit. We call that ‘effective range,’ and it’s usually less than a hundred meters,” Lihaku said, providing helpful military background.

“Oh. Well, that does make me feel better.” The quack stuffed some potato into his mouth in relief.

“Are you absolutely sure it’s safe?” The objection came from Lahan’s Brother. He sat cross-legged on the ground, petting the duck, who perched in his lap. “How far an arrow flies or whether it hits its target is all down to the skill and strength of the archer isn’t it? Or suppose they’ve developed a more advanced bow—it might be a lot more dangerous than you think, couldn’t it?”

Lahan’s Brother could do most things well. He might not be the most exceptional man in any one field, but he was tremendously versatile.

“You’re absolutely right, Lahan’s Brother. But I just don’t think a bow and arrow are going to be much of a threat here. The bow has a long history—it’s not going to change much now. A feifa firearm—now, there’s a weapon with a lot of growing to do. That could be really dangerous one day.”

“A feifa? I’m surprised to hear you mention that,” Maomao said. Lihaku was a soldier, someone who trusted in his own strength. She was surprised to realize he might put stock in firearms.

“Uh-huh. A feifa’s less powerful than a bow right now, but look how portable it is, just a little tube. That’s the scary part. Tools get more and more powerful as they’re improved. And tools that don’t rely on the user’s strength—those only get better and better the more improvements are made.”

“Er, well, then, wouldn’t it be dangerous if someone had one of these 
fay...fay-fah
?” the quack asked, clearly unsure what a feifa actually was.

“It sure would!” Lihaku declared. So much for reassuring the old doctor.

“Lihaku! If someone targets the officiants with one of these firearms, what’s the point of all your guards?” Lahan’s Brother asked, despairing. He set the duck to one side.

“Fair question. But feifa still have too many shortcomings to be used in an assassination. I just don’t expect to see anyone try anything with one at this ceremony. There. Feel better?”

He sounded so sure of himself that even Maomao was willing to believe him.

“The threat of violence worries me more,” Lihaku said. “But things seem quiet for now.”

“And they’ll probably stay that way, as long as we’re giving out food,” Lahan’s Brother said, skeptical. “Look. See that over there?”

“See what over where?” Chue asked, squinting. Maomao looked too, and saw crowds of people surrounding what appeared to be shop stalls.

“They’re handing out some extra food that arrived. Well, potatoes, to be specific.”

“Potatoes,” Maomao echoed. Just how crazy was Lahan’s Father for potatoes? Lahan’s Grandpa and Lahan’s Mother had seemed resentful of their rustic dwelling, but Maomao suspected that just by selling potatoes, their income probably far surpassed that of the freak strategist’s debt-riddled estate. They’d built a veritable Potato Palace.

“They went to the people who normally do the food stalls at this sort of thing and got them to pass the potatoes out. They get experienced food handlers, and it helps with employment.”

“Hoh,” Maomao said, taking a sip of tea. It was thin, made with well-used leaves. The potatoes would make things easy, because they didn’t even need to be peeled: with a modicum of fuel, they could be roasted. It was very Jinshi-esque to think not just of handing out food, but of how to use that to obtain a variety of economic benefits.

“They’ve added an extra detail too,” Lahan’s Brother informed them. “They brand each potato to identify it as coming from His Majesty’s younger brother.”

Maomao spat out her tea so hard that it got into her nose and threatened to fly up into her eyes.

“Huh? What’s your problem?” Lahan’s Brother asked, patting her on the back.

“N-Nothing. Nothing. Just, isn’t it sort of impertinent to put the Moon Prince’s sigil on a potato?”

“It’s a simplified version, just a crescent moon. It wouldn’t have been possible to do anything too detailed.”

Maomao wondered, concerned, if Jinshi was doing this as a form of self-flagellation.

“Branded potatoes! Now that sounds interesting. Miss Chue will just go get some,” Chue said, 
shhp
-ing to her feet.

“We have potatoes right here,” Maomao said.

“She will also see if there are any tempting snacks around. In other words, Miss Chue is tired of watching.”

“Now, that’s no fair, Miss Chue. You expect me to just stay here and watch the place?” Lihaku said.

“Sure do! Have fun!”

And with that, Chue left.

Maomao dabbed at her face with a handkerchief and looked out at the plaza. A man in highly conspicuous clothing—presumably Jinshi—was walking through it. She couldn’t hear what he was saying, but she caught the faint sounds of musical instruments, carried to them on the breeze.

She munched a potato and hoped nothing would happen.