“The Yi clan attracted the attention of the empress regnant,” Gyoku-ou said. “If they had been left to their own devices, the whole western capital might have been obliterated. Rotten fruit can spoil the box it’s stored in, so that both must be thrown away. It was unavoidable.”

It was the second son who sighed deeply, rising from his own chair to put himself between Gyoku-ou and Dahai. “Both of you, calm down,” he said. “Calm yourself, Dahai. I can see at least that our brother is trying to come up with some way to help the western capital flourish. We’re all on edge because of the swarm. What will we do if you, who stand above them, chafe and fret as well?”

“Don’t misunderstand. I oppose Brother Gyoku-ou’s suggestion, as you do. The fuel question is a crucial one, but not one that can be rushed. Right now, I believe we should be focusing on recovering from the disaster that has befallen us. Yes, it will be painful, but didn’t Father teach us siblings to help each other? And you, Eldest Brother, can you not wait a little while, until the heir apparent has grown older?”

At that, Gyoku-ou began to laugh. “Heh heh... Ha ha ha! How many years would you have me wait, little brother? What certainty do we even have that my nephew will safely ascend the throne?”

“Esteemed Brother Ou, you go too far!” the third sister said, striking the table.

Gyoku-ou’s eyes went wide. “You will call me Gyoku-ou!” he bellowed, raising his voice for the first time.

His anger put the third sister back on her heels; her own eyes widened slightly, but in dismay. She had committed a faux pas, and she knew it. “I apologize, Elder Brother Gyoku-ou,” she said.

Almost immediately, the smile returned to Gyoku-ou’s face. “It’s nothing. So long as you realize.”

The other siblings looked at him afresh. Until a moment ago, Rikuson would have said they were exchanging their opinions freely and without restraint, but when he saw how they reacted to Gyoku-ou’s shouting, he sensed a yawning gulf between them. Gyokuen had thirteen children, but only two of them carried “Gyoku” in their names: Gyoku-ou and Empress Gyokuyou.

The father of thirteen children he might have been, but Gyokuen had only ever had one successor, Gyoku-ou. As the one guaranteed to inherit, that made his might among his siblings absolute. His younger brothers and sisters could push back against Gyoku-ou only so far as he allowed them to. His outburst had reminded them of this fact. It had shown them that they held this discussion at Gyoku-ou’s pleasure alone. They were supporting actors whom Gyoku-ou had gathered on his stage.

Needless to say, “anonymous advisor” was not a speaking part. And that’s exactly what Rikuson was.

The mood in the room had become intensely uncomfortable. The second son hesitantly returned to his seat.

The talk, Rikuson thought, might normally have been more amicable, but the insect swarm had left everyone living reduced lives for nearly three months now. Gyokuen’s own children were unlikely to starve, but the weight of the responsibilities they bore frayed their nerves.

“I am not speaking of groundless fears,” Gyoku-ou said. “I speak of the truth. Do you know how many of His Majesty’s children have perished in the rear palace in these latter days?”

The brothers and sisters looked at each other in silence.

“You don’t? Then let us ask someone who 
comes
 from that region. Rikuson, how many of the Emperor’s honored children have left the world long before their time?”

Now all attention turned to Rikuson. So much for that minor role: he had been given a name. To have all of the siblings looking at him was almost unbearable, but there was nothing he could do except answer.

“When he was still the prince-in-waiting, one. Since his accession to the throne, three of his children have died prematurely.”

“There you have it. Think how young the heir apparent still is. One cannot be certain of a child’s life until at least seven years of age.”

Children of the Imperial family were raised in better circumstances than those of the common folk, but even so, an infant could die all too easily, and even a grown child might still succumb to illness.

“Our younger sister You has a son, the heir apparent, and a daughter, a princess. But another of the royal consorts has a son nearly the same age as the heir apparent as well. You’s child may stand next in line for the throne, but can we be sure he will stay there?”

By invoking this other woman, Gyoku-ou raised the prospect not only of death by illness, but of assassination.

“Do you mean to imply that Consort Lihua would make an attempt on the life of the heir apparent?” Dahai asked. Gyoku-ou shook his head.

“Ha ha ha. Is there not someone far more terrible than Consort Lihua?” He thrust a hand toward the window—toward the plaza where a state ceremony was presently being conducted.

“Eldest Brother, what are you saying?!” The second brother slammed his fist on the table and jumped from his chair.

“Elder Brother Gyoku-ou, I cannot countenance that utterance,” said the eldest sister; she and the third sister both shook their heads. The other siblings likewise looked uneasy, each turning to their attendants. Rikuson hadn’t been paying much attention to them—he had his hands full trying to watch all the siblings—but they, too, were obviously shaken by Gyoku-ou’s words.

“Why not? Surely it’s clear why none of the royal offspring seem to survive. His Majesty loves his own brother, the Moon Prince, more than he does the children born in the rear palace.”

That set the table buzzing.

“That can’t be... Wait, could it?” someone asked.

“The Moon Prince?” someone else said.

Some were shocked, but to others, it seemed to make sense. Rikuson, for his part, wasn’t sure how to react. The Moon Prince had spent years avoiding the public eye on the pretext of being weakened with illness. There were no other members of the royal bloodline, and there had always been rumors that the current Emperor doted upon his younger brother. They were both children of the same mother, after all. The Moon Prince was kept from public duties on account of His Majesty’s overprotectiveness, some said.

When the younger brother had at last appeared, though, it turned out that he was as beautiful and as gossamer as a celestial nymph—and that he was also a hale young man as skilled in the military arts as the administrative. But what rocked the people who saw him was more than the revelation that the Emperor’s younger brother was not a man to be dismissed. It was because, under the name Jinshi, this man had spent years running the rear palace, pretending to be a eunuch. What was more shocking still was when he chose to make his public appearance: on the occasion of the crushing of the Shi clan.

Ever since his days as a “eunuch,”the Moon Prince’s beauty had attracted much attention, not just from women but from men as well. The revelation of Jinshi’s true identity had caused much consternation among the actual eunuchs of the rear palace; Rikuson had seen it himself. Many wondered whether they ought to retire, or perhaps hang themselves or cut their bellies.

When the Emperor was asked why he had allowed a member of the royal family to pretend to be a eunuch, he’d replied, “To search out corruption.” Indeed, the Shi clan, rulers of Shihoku Province, had attempted a rebellion; their destruction was fresh in the memory.

“And what is this love you speak of?” The third daughter was blushing. She seemed to have another meaning of love in mind, but no one bothered to point that out. The possibility was indeed implied.

“Have you not heard the stories? About whether the Moon Prince is 
really
 the son of the former emperor?” Gyoku-ou said.

“Yes, but that’s all they are—hearsay. Even our father said the Moon Prince was much like the former emperor in the sovereign’s younger days. Then who do you propose was the father?” the second son asked, exasperated by the entire topic.

Gyoku-ou’s expression never faltered. “At that time, the Empress Dowager was simply the empress. Only so many people could get close to a woman in her position. If it wasn’t His Former Majesty, it could only have been a family member.” Gyoku-ou grinned—an expression that the people of the western capital might have considered heroic. What he spoke of now, however, was foul. “Say, His Present Majesty.”

“You’re suggesting that the Moon Prince might be the Emperor’s own son?” the fifth brother asked, going pale. Not only the other siblings but their attendants began muttering to each other.

With the many nomadic tribes in I-sei Province, marriage among relatives was common—but relations between a parent and child were taboo.

“Is it so hard to imagine?” asked Gyoku-ou. “The former emperor was interested only in children—and the Empress Dowager was not that young, but still young. Closer in age to our current sovereign than the former one, I daresay. Consanguinity has never stopped the Imperial family before. There are records of past members having children with nieces or half-sisters.”

“This is beyond absurd! What you’re suggesting is absolutely unthinkable!” Dahai shouted. All his deference toward his eldest brother had evaporated.

“And yet it explains everything. The ‘Imperial younger brother’ resembles His Majesty? Well, a son resembles his father. His Majesty dotes upon the Moon Prince? So does a father upon his son. Finally, no children were raised in the rear palace for many years—to allow his eldest son to be certain to inherit the throne.”

The eldest sister marched up to Gyoku-ou, pressing closer and closer to him. “You mean to say that His Majesty never intended for any of his other children to survive to adulthood? That the other infants were murdered, and the Crown Prince will be too? With what proof? What proof do you have?!” Her lady-in-waiting, somewhat reluctantly, held her mistress back.

“She’s right! On what grounds can you say this?” the third daughter demanded. “If it ever came out that you were making such accusations based on nothing but speculation, we would be lucky to meet the fate of the Yi—or even the Shi—clan!”

“You want proof? Then let me tell you a story.” Gyoku-ou, unbothered by the hubbub that had broken out around him, slowly uncrossed and recrossed his legs. “When the Imperial younger brother was born, almost all of the ladies-in-waiting who had attended the empress until that time were released from service. One of them was married off to a man in I-sei Province, and her husband happened to be an acquaintance of mine. Tragically, her husband died, after which she came to me with a request. She said she had something very important to say about the Imperial younger brother.”

Gyoku-ou couldn’t have looked more pleased with himself.

“Is... Is this true?” the eldest sister asked, slowly backing away.

“Oh, it’s true. It was last year. Just after His Majesty’s younger brother had been in the western capital, as it happens.”

Dahai gave Gyoku-ou a doubtful look. “This is the first I’ve heard of it.”

“This is the first I’ve spoken of it. It seemed very strange that she would come to me with her story, but I thought the least I could do was hear her out. Yet almost immediately after that, this former lady-in-waiting died—run over by a carriage in a terrible accident.” He spread his hands mournfully. The implication was clear: he wanted them to believe someone had tried to shut the woman up.

Rikuson felt himself break out in a damp sweat.

This man, Gyoku-ou, had a perfect facade.

He knew how to set the stage.

And he knew how to needle others in their weakest places.

He had no real proof of his claims, yet he would succeed in sowing doubt in the minds of everyone in the room about the circumstances of the Moon Prince’s birth. He talked circles around them and invited them to this conclusion.

“Do you think the Moon Prince would deign to listen to what I have said? Would it be best I not speak of it? Does he know, or does he not know?” Gyoku-ou’s voice rang around the room as he declaimed. His gestures and motions were as studied as an actor’s on the stage, and his tale, which by all rights should have been laughable, fell sweetly on the ear.

“Our father desired and desires the flourishing of the western capital. Is that what we will gain by simply wagging our tails at the Imperial family? If you say we should be their dogs, then I say we should have been destroyed seventeen years ago!”

The Yi clan was named after the dog of the zodiac, and Gyoku-ou played on their name now to invoke the memory of their clan. The younger brothers and sisters who had opposed their elder no longer looked so certain. They had begun to wonder if they should meekly support the Imperial family or not.

This, Rikuson saw, was what made Gyoku-ou so frightening. He would make them do that which they did not wish to.

He knew now why he had been called here. It was a provocation: Gyoku-ou did not care if the Imperial younger brother found out about this. That was why he had chosen Rikuson, a hamstrung man. Just as the bat was neither bird nor beast, so Rikuson belonged neither to the royal capital nor the western city.

Gyoku-ou’s tone filled Rikuson’s mind. It challenged him to speak if he dared—and asked what it would matter if he did.

“Now, we must get ready,” Gyoku-ou said. “We cannot let the ceremony conclude without our presence. All of you, go, prepare.”

At Gyoku-ou’s urging, the siblings parted ways, with heavy hearts and long faces.

Finally, only Dahai among them was left. Before he left the room, he turned to look at Gyoku-ou. “Eldest Brother. This ceremony we go to...”

“I’ll mind my manners for today. I know your hearts are not yet settled.”

Rikuson wasn’t sure whether he found that reassuring. He stayed in his chair, stock-still, staring at the ground.