“The Yi clan attracted the attention of the empress regnant,” Gyoku-ou said. “If they had been left to their own devices, the whole western capital might have been obliterated. Rotten fruit can spoil the box it’s stored in, so that both must be thrown away. It was unavoidable.”

It was the second son who sighed deeply, rising from his own chair to put himself between Gyoku-ou and Dahai. “Both of you, calm down,” he said. “Calm yourself, Dahai. I can see at least that our brother is trying to come up with some way to help the western capital flourish. We’re all on edge because of the swarm. What will we do if you, who stand above them, chafe and fret as well?”

“Don’t misunderstand. I oppose Brother Gyoku-ou’s suggestion, as you do. The fuel question is a crucial one, but not one that can be rushed. Right now, I believe we should be focusing on recovering from the disaster that has befallen us. Yes, it will be painful, but didn’t Father teach us siblings to help each other? And you, Eldest Brother, can you not wait a little while, until the heir apparent has grown older?”

At that, Gyoku-ou began to laugh. “Heh heh... Ha ha ha! How many years would you have me wait, little brother? What certainty do we even have that my nephew will safely ascend the throne?”

“Esteemed Brother Ou, you go too far!” the third sister said, striking the table.

Gyoku-ou’s eyes went wide. “You will call me Gyoku-ou!” he bellowed, raising his voice for the first time.

His anger put the third sister back on her heels; her own eyes widened slightly, but in dismay. She had committed a faux pas, and she knew it. “I apologize, Elder Brother Gyoku-ou,” she said.

Almost immediately, the smile returned to Gyoku-ou’s face. “It’s nothing. So long as you realize.”

The other siblings looked at him afresh. Until a moment ago, Rikuson would have said they were exchanging their opinions freely and without restraint, but when he saw how they reacted to Gyoku-ou’s shouting, he sensed a yawning gulf between them. Gyokuen had thirteen children, but only two of them carried “Gyoku” in their names: Gyoku-ou and Empress Gyokuyou.

The father of thirteen children he might have been, but Gyokuen had only ever had one successor, Gyoku-ou. As the one guaranteed to inherit, that made his might among his siblings absolute. His younger brothers and sisters could push back against Gyoku-ou only so far as he allowed them to. His outburst had reminded them of this fact. It had shown them that they held this discussion at Gyoku-ou’s pleasure alone. They were supporting actors whom Gyoku-ou had gathered on his stage.

Needless to say, “anonymous advisor” was not a speaking part. And that’s exactly what Rikuson was.

The mood in the room had become intensely uncomfortable. The second son hesitantly returned to his seat.

The talk, Rikuson thought, might normally have been more amicable, but the insect swarm had left everyone living reduced lives for nearly three months now. Gyokuen’s own children were unlikely to starve, but the weight of the responsibilities they bore frayed their nerves.

“I am not speaking of groundless fears,” Gyoku-ou said. “I speak of the truth. Do you know how many of His Majesty’s children have perished in the rear palace in these latter days?”

The brothers and sisters looked at each other in silence.

“You don’t? Then let us ask someone who 
comes
 from that region. Rikuson, how many of the Emperor’s honored children have left the world long before their time?”

Now all attention turned to Rikuson. So much for that minor role: he had been given a name. To have all of the siblings looking at him was almost unbearable, but there was nothing he could do except answer.

“When he was still the prince-in-waiting, one. Since his accession to the throne, three of his children have died prematurely.”

“There you have it. Think how young the heir apparent still is. One cannot be certain of a child’s life until at least seven years of age.”

Children of the Imperial family were raised in better circumstances than those of the common folk, but even so, an infant could die all too easily, and even a grown child might still succumb to illness.

“Our younger sister You has a son, the heir apparent, and a daughter, a princess. But another of the royal consorts has a son nearly the same age as the heir apparent as well. You’s child may stand next in line for the throne, but can we be sure he will stay there?”

By invoking this other woman, Gyoku-ou raised the prospect not only of death by illness, but of assassination.

“Do you mean to imply that Consort Lihua would make an attempt on the life of the heir apparent?” Dahai asked. Gyoku-ou shook his head.

“Ha ha ha. Is there not someone far more terrible than Consort Lihua?” He thrust a hand toward the window—toward the plaza where a state ceremony was presently being conducted.

“Eldest Brother, what are you saying?!” The second brother slammed his fist on the table and jumped from his chair.

“Elder Brother Gyoku-ou, I cannot countenance that utterance,” said the eldest sister; she and the third sister both shook their heads. The other siblings likewise looked uneasy, each turning to their attendants. Rikuson hadn’t been paying much attention to them—he had his hands full trying to watch all the siblings—but they, too, were obviously shaken by Gyoku-ou’s words.

“Why not? Surely it’s clear why none of the royal offspring seem to survive. His Majesty loves his own brother, the Moon Prince, more than he does the children born in the rear palace.”

That set the table buzzing.

“That can’t be... Wait, could it?” someone asked.

“The Moon Prince?” someone else said.

Some were shocked, but to others, it seemed to make sense. Rikuson, for his part, wasn’t sure how to react. The Moon Prince had spent years avoiding the public eye on the pretext of being weakened with illness. There were no other members of the royal bloodline, and there had always been rumors that the current Emperor doted upon his younger brother. They were both children of the same mother, after all. The Moon Prince was kept from public duties on account of His Majesty’s overprotectiveness, some said.

When the younger brother had at last appeared, though, it turned out that he was as beautiful and as gossamer as a celestial nymph—and that he was also a hale young man as skilled in the military arts as the administrative. But what rocked the people who saw him was more than the revelation that the Emperor’s younger brother was not a man to be dismissed. It was because, under the name Jinshi, this man had spent years running the rear palace, pretending to be a eunuch. What was more shocking still was when he chose to make his public appearance: on the occasion of the crushing of the Shi clan.

“Have you not heard the stories? About whether the Moon Prince is 
really
 the son of the former emperor?” Gyoku-ou said.