“And while that price is creeping up, the rest of us are going to die!” the seventh son exclaimed, staring daggers at his eldest sister. “Thanks to the insect swarm, my livestock have run away and my tents are in tatters. I would be willing to buy food, but no one will even sell to me—do you know what that’s like? I’ve already had to sell a tenth of the livestock I had left. I know I can’t get a fair price now for what I’ve already sold you. I was selling what wool and butter I had left to buy food, but now I can’t even do that. You know, I’ve also been keeping down the price of sheep dung for the ironworks and pottery kilns. This winter looks like it’s going to be a cold one. I won’t have extra fuel to sell, and it’s going to be all I can do to buy food for myself. Go ahead and whine about how I should cut family members a deal. It won’t help. Because there’ll be no one to give you a discount if I’m dead!”

Rikuson only just managed to maintain his air of cool detachment at the seventh son’s words. He was surprised to realize his heart was pounding, but he succeeded—he hoped—in looking genially perplexed. Why, what’s that? his expression seemed to say.

Coal—the burning stone. As the name implied, it was a rock that would burn when you set fire to it. It wasn’t mined in the central regions; there was scant use for it there, so it wasn’t seen as valuable, but the same was not true of I-sei Province. Coal was often burned here to help stay warm in a cold year. It was essential.

By now, Rikuson had a firm grasp on relations between the siblings. The older ones, whose businesses were successful, sought stability and didn’t want war. But the younger ones had been forced to the brink by the insect swarm and could find themselves collapsing at any moment. That was where Gyoku-ou found his opening.

“In the long view, the benefits are numerous. If we capture Shaoh, we take its mine as well,” Gyoku-ou said. “Moving coal via the ports will be easy, as will transporting goods into the interior. Our iron and ceramic works will grow, and no one will have to freeze to death ever again.” He spoke clearly, fluently; the speech was well rehearsed.

Dahai rose from his seat. “You’ve done all your planning from behind a desk, Brother. Worse—you can’t possibly know this will work. What makes you think Shaoh will fall so easily? How can you be sure they have a mine from which we can get coal? Shaoh is a neutral country. If Li attacks them unprovoked, other nations will not stand quietly by. You would anger Father, and worse, you would anger the Emperor. His love for our sister You won’t save you then, not even with your nephew in line for the throne! The Yi were destroyed; you think they won’t destroy us?”

“The destruction of the Yi clan was unavoidable,” Gyoku-ou said sadly, setting off murmuring among the brothers and sisters.

Rikuson took a deep breath. Calm down , he ordered himself. He looked around and saw that the siblings each had one of two expressions on their faces. The older ones looked anxious, while the younger ones looked lost. He realized that the youngest of them, everyone from the fifth son on down, had never learned the details of what had happened seventeen years before.

He refrained from saying 
why
 they had drawn the empress’s attention.