Righteousness was with his father. Justice in the form of protecting the western capital. It was what Seibo had wanted. To accomplish it, Gyokuen’s eldest son, Gyoku-ou, had to be perfect.

The evil necessary to attain Gyokuen’s justice? Compared to other leaders, it was hardly evil at all. Gyoku-ou’s father was simply that good a man.

Gyoku-ou remembered how the former slaves failed at the unfamiliar practice of farming, again and again, and came to his father for money. Gyokuen, ever kind, lent it to them. What they couldn’t repay, he allowed them to pay off by working in his fields at the harvest. It was as gentle a loan as had ever been offered. In fact, considering the time and effort necessary to teach them, the borrowers came out ahead. Yet in spite of this, Gyoku-ou’s father was never greedy. Perhaps a man with deep pockets could simply, literally afford to help others like this.

Even then, there were limits to what could be permitted. They were broken by the first slaves Gyokuen had freed. People who knew about Gyoku-ou’s origins.

As they say, the quiet pheasant is not shot.

Gyokuen truly loved Gyoku-ou. Those audacious enough to try to threaten him disappeared one by one. Be they former slaves, or be they members of the Windreader tribe who knew Seibo, they vanished. They had to. The Jade must remain unblemished.

If Gyoku-ou was to succeed his father, then anyone who stood in the way must be eliminated.

“Big Lin had it hidden. I got it from him.”

Takubatsu seemed to be talking about something that had stirred up the household some time ago. Even Gyoku-ou had heard about it.

“The so-called Small Lin, the one who disappeared—that was you? That means you’ve been working on this for a while. But why?”

After a moment, Takubatsu said, “Master Gyokuen asked me to. He said that if Big Lin seemed to be hiding any papers from long ago, to let him know. He told me to burn anything I found. That was why he periodically called me here.”

Now it all made sense. “I see,” Gyoku-ou said.

Gyokuen had, as ever, had his son’s interests at heart. He’d given Gyoku-ou hell for what he’d done to the Yi clan those seventeen years ago, but even then he hadn’t disinherited him. Gyoku-ou worked on Gyokuen’s behalf. So that the people would venerate him, so that charity could be given to the weak, so that everyone would see him as a hero upon whom they could rely.

Gyoku-ou knew his father would forgive what he did. For Gyoku-ou, who would take over from his father, was the perfect politician, unblemished, always thinking of what would help the western capital thrive.

That was how he knew that what he was doing now was right.

“If you really care about the western capital, please, stop this nonsense about attacking other countries,” Takubatsu said. “If you won’t...”

He took a knife from the folds of his robe.

Gyoku-ou didn’t so much as take a step back. However, he couldn’t spend any more time on this matter. He forced his coursing blood to cool and let out a great sigh. “Very well,” he said. “I won’t do anything.”

“Do you mean that?”

“Yes. But only let me go to this ceremony. If I don’t appear, the mood will go sour. I don’t want to damage the Imperial younger brother’s reputation.”

“Yes... Very well. But I’m going to keep this family register close. I fully intend to raise the matter with Master Gyokuen.”

With that, Takubatsu put the knife on the table and picked up the register instead. Gyoku-ou trusted that he wouldn’t tell anyone what he knew.

“I want you to know one thing, Takubatsu. For the western capital, for I-sei Province, there is nothing I won’t do.”

“I know that. You always told me how much you wanted to be a great man like Master Gyokuen.” Takubatsu actually smiled.

“To you, he is a noble father—and I, too, see him as a father I can respect more than anyone else.”

Gyoku-ou didn’t speak, but at that, a thread snapped within him. He’d meant to remain calm at this moment no matter what happened. But it was bad enough for Takubatsu to call Gyoku-ou his younger brother. Now he called Gyokuen his father.

Gyoku-ou 
had
 to be Gyokuen’s eldest son. Had to be his pride, the leader of the western capital...

“Hrngh!” Takubatsu exclaimed.

Before Gyoku-ou knew what had happened, he realized there was a knife in his right hand and a sheathe in his left. Something slick ran along his palm.

“Wh... Why?” Takubatsu’s eyes were wide, and bloody foam dribbled from the corner of his mouth. His blood poured down the table and onto the floor; the family register he’d been holding dropped from his hands and into the red pool.

“Because you’re in my way.”

With the knife still lodged in Takubatsu, Gyoku-ou’s mind turned to the events of the past.

How he’d wished to be like his father, longed for his father to validate him.

Gyokuen loomed so large in his mind. Gyoku-ou had grown large too—but it wasn’t the same.

At first, he hadn’t much minded.

Gyokuen and Seibo had handled business together, and the family had been surrounded by servants. Gyokuen was a brilliant businessman, and Seibo was every bit as sharp as him. A hugely capable woman, she would find out what he needed, and then she would act to get it.

Gyoku-ou had wanted for nothing in his upbringing. Only, when he was five years old, another woman and her daughter came to live with them.

Gyokuen fawned over to the new child—a little sister to Gyoku-ou, still just two years old. Seibo was nearly as smitten as her husband. The new woman was also kind to Gyoku-ou.

Two years after that, a third woman arrived, bringing a little brother.

Then there was a fourth and a fifth...

The family got bigger and bigger. Each time it did, Gyoku-ou worried. To him, it felt like a jar full of honey being gradually diluted with water.

Gyokuen always picked intelligent women. One was a master of horsemanship, another skilled in arithmetic. Each of them passed on their particular talents to their offspring. The women supported Gyoku-ou’s father, and their children in turn helped them.

Through the bonds of family, the newly arrived You household became great in the western capital. At the same time, Gyoku-ou felt the bond joining him to Gyokuen weakening.