Yet it proved otherwise. Gyokuen chose Gyoku-ou for his successor. Seibo was still Gyokuen’s official wife; the other women were only consorts. Surely, it was only Gyoku-ou who could rule the western capital as Gyokuen had. Not his younger brothers or sisters.

Even after he discovered that he was not Gyokuen’s real son, Gyoku-ou maintained his equanimity. So what if they weren’t connected by blood? Gyokuen valued Gyoku-ou most of all. He couldn’t have cared more for him if he’d been his own flesh and blood.

So it was that Gyoku-ou was able to be kind and gentle to his younger siblings. Tolerant of them. Gyoku-ou alone was like a cuckoo’s chick, a different creature from his brothers and sisters, but so long as his father treated him as his eldest son, Gyoku-ou meant to play the part of the elder brother to the hilt.

The very last mother and child that Gyokuen welcomed into his house, however, Gyoku-ou could not tolerate. They had red hair and pale-green eyes—just like the master who had tormented Seibo when she was a slave.

Bit by bit the curses overflowed, the way ink might stain a piece of parchment.

The patter of blood dripping to the floor brought Gyoku-ou back to reality.

“...oku...o...” Takubatsu looked at him with bloodshot eyes and said something, his voice a whisper, but Gyoku-ou couldn’t hear it.

Gyoku-ou flipped the knife around in his hand and gutted Takubatsu.

Unable to speak anymore, he only glared at Gyoku-ou with baleful eyes.

“One final mercy for a milk brother,” Gyoku-ou said, and then he pulled the knife out before driving it past Takubatsu’s ribs and into his heart. Takubatsu groaned, twitched, and died.

The knife had belonged to Takubatsu. He’d tried to attack Gyoku-ou, only to meet his end by his own weapon. Yes, that would do for a scenario.

Gyoku-ou picked up the family register, wrapped it in a cloth, and placed it in a drawer.

He was right—someone had heard the shouting. There was a rush of footsteps that stopped outside the door, followed by a knock.

“Master Gyoku-ou? Is everything all right?” a voice asked.

“Come in,” he said.

“M—Master Gyoku-ou?!”

It wasn’t his aide who entered, but Rikuson. He’d been at the conference with them—he must have come to check on Gyoku-ou when he was running late.

“What in the world happened here?” Rikuson asked, maintaining an air of calm despite his obvious shock. This was the man that Gyoku-ou’s father had sent him from the royal capital to be his adjutant. He knew enough not to immediately make a scene.

“You’re telling me you can’t guess?” Gyoku-ou asked.

“This man... He’s the one who sought an audience with you a few minutes ago, isn’t he?”

Rikuson must have seen Takubatsu when he spoke to the aide.

“That’s right. He was my milk brother, in fact, so I indulged him. He came to beg for money, but when he saw he couldn’t wheedle anything out of me, he became enraged.” Gyoku-ou showed him Takubatsu’s knife.

“You did this, sir?”

“Yes. What, you think the likes of him could overpower me?”

Gyoku-ou’s face was still twitching. Takubatsu had brought this upon himself. Talking as if he and not Gyoku-ou were Gyokuen’s eldest son.

Gyoku-ou placed the knife on the table. He would have to change quickly and get some perfume to cover the smell of blood.

“Not at all, Master Gyoku-ou. Your strength he could not best.” Rikuson knelt down and looked at Takubatsu’s body. Inspecting the wounds, it seemed like.

“I didn’t want to do it, but he left me no choice. I wanted to settle things amicably. I have a ceremony to attend. But he tried to stand in my way. Good riddance to him.”

Rikuson’s gaze was empty as it drifted from Takubatsu to Gyoku-ou and back. “Yes... Of course.”

Then, for a second, Gyoku-ou lost sight of Rikuson. He turned—where had he gone?—to find the other man right next to him.

“Here’s what I’ll tell everyone,” Rikuson said, and his expression was cold, except for a glint of flame deep in his eyes. What was this? “Master Gyoku-ou was attacked by a traitor...”

Suddenly, Gyoku-ou felt very warm.

“...and he met his end.”

What did that mean? Gyoku-ou was still trying to understand when he collapsed.

He found himself face-to-face with Takubatsu. There was blood all over the floor; he could hear it flowing out.

“I arrived too late to save him, but I was able to stop the traitor,” Rikuson said.

What did that mean? What was he talking about? Gyoku-ou didn’t understand. He opened his mouth to say something but found he couldn’t speak. There was a bloody foam at the corner of his mouth.

He gasped. Still no voice came out, but only a groan, like the warbling of a bird.

“Don’t make that face. Don’t pretend you don’t know why. You’ll be able to be the star.” Rikuson’s face was expressionless, but there were tears in his eyes. “The hero of a tragedy.” The tears ran down his cheeks and fell to the floor.

He couldn’t do anything—not like this. He couldn’t do anything for the western capital.

He couldn’t rule the city as his father’s son.

He couldn’t go to Shaoh and rescue the slaves, as his father had done.

He’d planned to punish the man who had put his mother through hell.

Gyoku-ou was Gyokuen’s eldest son. He wouldn’t let anyone usurp that place from him.

All he had to do was erase every last shred of evidence that Gyokuen wasn’t his father.

There was nothing he wouldn’t do to achieve that.

Even if it meant bringing down the Yi clan, which had sullied its hands with wrongdoing for the benefit of the western capital.

One day, one day when it was all gone, he was going to rule secure in Gyokuen’s place...

The clatter of a carriage, the neighing of the horses, the creak of the wheels, the shouting of the driver.

The sounds of the marketplace, the shouts of the merchants, the burble of the crowd, the laughter of children.

The dry air and exhausted earth. Though the land had scant blessings, people here lived bravely and well. He was going to make them more prosperous, richer.

Not anymore.

And so it was only then that Gyoku-ou realized something.

It was strange. Wrong.

Why, when he was meant to inherit the leadership of the western capital in Gyokuen’s place? Why, when it fell to him to help the city grow?