“Yes, I did—but as you say, that was the past. And also as you say, my first duty must be to protect my family.”

Takubatsu was talking about the halcyon days of Gyoku-ou’s youth, when the sky was always blue and no doubt had troubled him.

“As you can see, the western capital is in danger. The people are exhausted by the ravages of the insect swarm. If I am to supply what they lack, some sacrifice must be made, must it not?”

“It’s our leaders’ job to avoid precisely such sacrifices! If Master Gyokuen were here, he would be searching for some other way—any other way. Have you searched? Even the honored Imperial younger brother has done his part!”

Gyoku-ou found Takubatsu’s voice grating. The man had colicky hair and pale eyes. Signs of foreign blood. There was nothing about Takubatsu that Gyoku-ou liked—not the way he looked, not the way he acted.

“That is not your concern. I told you, I have business to attend to. I’m going to be part of a state ceremony. I’m out of time to entertain you.”

“A state ceremony where you’ll whip the people into a war frenzy, no doubt. It was always one of your greatest talents—give you a stage, and you could sway any audience. Just as our younger brothers and sisters looked shaken earlier.”

“Shut up!” Gyoku-ou bellowed in spite of himself. He had to be careful. The bureaucrats had left the two of them alone, but they might come in if they heard shouting. He couldn’t have that.

Gyoku-ou regarded Takubatsu with an absolute chill in his eyes.

He couldn’t have his aides hearing talk like that. No one could.

“I don’t know what you mean,” he said. “Milk brothers we may be, yes. If you want to go around playing at being the elder, I can smile and play along. But you are not my older brother.”

“I know you wish I weren’t,” Takubatsu said slowly. “Master Gyokuen and Lady Seibo both raised you that way. And I’m sure my own mother agreed with them.”

Takubatsu threw a book on the table, a weathered lump of sheepskin parchment. It was a family register. Obviously quite an old one—decades old, perhaps. Gyoku-ou’s milk brother began flipping the pages.

“Too bad for you it’s all written right here.”

Seibo’s name was there. Listed as her child was a name Gyoku-ou didn’t recognize. They had been born, however, in the same year as Gyoku-ou.

“The story was that my mother left Master Gyokuen’s household because she was sick. But it was only a cover. Master Gyokuen put us out of his house in order to hide me and my mother.” The words came easily now, smoothly. “I’m told I was the son of a Shaohnese merchant. The man lost his children to sickness and accidents, one after another, and when his family was all gone, he recalled a child he’d had with a forgotten slave.”

Gyoku-ou was silent. He had a ceremony to get to, but he couldn’t leave this man alone while he was taking his little trip down memory lane.

“Eventually that merchant found his way to Master Gyokuen, didn’t he? Did you think nothing when you saw him?”