Didn’t that still work out to him becoming Gyokuen’s successor after all? He would sooner die.

“After all this, 
now
 you’re going to ask me to wipe your ass?” Rikuson demanded.

“That’s not what I’m doing. This is the fate of men who become the wind.”

Gyokuen, Rikuson realized, was just the kind of man his mother and sister had said he was.

It was a low-down, dirty way to get him. When he put it like that, Rikuson had no choice but to accept. No choice but to learn the same stubbornness under a gentle smile.

Rikuson would take his craggy heart and hone it with a polishing stone, working and working until it was smooth and beautiful. And then he would make himself sharp as a sword, prepared to strike down anyone, anyone at all, when the need arose.

Rikuson climbed out of the carriage to find himself at the port. There he saw a man behaving very strangely.

“No ships! No! You can’t make me get on one!” There he was, a full-grown man, clinging to a post and throwing a tantrum like a child.

“You 
have
 to get on the ship or you can’t get home. Come on, we finally found one to take you...”

“But—ships! I can’t! No ships!”

Rikuson recognized the man—it was Lakan. “Mister? What are you doing?” he asked before he could stop himself.

“Hrm? Who’re you? A shrimpy Pawn...”

Lakan had completely forgotten about Rikuson. He was used to that by now, but it was still annoying.

“You’re going back to the capital, aren’t you? Well, I think you’d have a better time on a boat than going overland.” Lurching around in a carriage and lurching around on a ship weren’t that different, so better to go with the quicker trip, Rikuson thought.

“Gnrr,” Lakan grumbled, but he shuffled onto the boat.

“You really can’t remember people’s faces, can you, Mister? Are you going to be all right?”

“Hrm... I 
guess
 it might be a problem when I make it in the world.”

“Then when you make your fortune, hire me! I’ll remember everyone’s faces for you and never forget. It’ll be good for you.”

“Hm, yeah, all right.”

It was the simplest of conversations—he never imagined that a decade later, it would actually come true. By then, the man who had come to be known as the freak strategist had completely forgotten about Rikuson.

In the end, the Yi clan was destroyed. Even in the face of a formal protest, the central government didn’t acknowledge that the Imperial edict had been mistaken, but they seemed to have reached a compromise.

Witness:

Item. Survivors of the Yi clan would not be hunted down.

Item. The name I-sei, the Western Yi, Province would be retained.

Item. Gyokuen, not “of the Yi clan” but “
formerly
 of the Yi clan,” would rule the western capital.

Item. I-sei Province would not pay taxes on the coal it mined—as a form of hush money. Unofficially, of course.

The Yi clan remained disgraced, but Gyokuen had chosen the flourishing of I-sei Province over honor. As much as it pained Rikuson to admit it, Gyokuen was his foremost model of a man who sought the good of the western capital before all else.