Chapter 20: The Weeping Wind (Part Two)

His mother had often said to him, “When you grow up, you’ll become the wind.”

When he came of age at fifteen, he would go out into the world—but until then, she told him, he must study all that the world had to offer. Two more years of this learning lay ahead of him...

Become the wind, she told him, and blow so that the air of the western reaches might stay clear.

It was a memory from the time before Rikuson was called Rikuson.

The women protected the town while the men roamed across the plains: this was what he had been taught. He was sad to know he would have to leave home someday, but if he could become the wind, if he could be of help to his mother and his older sister, then he was glad of that.

He enjoyed his afternoon walks, trying to decide how he could best use the pocket change they gave him, how to get something good for it and not waste it. What should he spend it on that would be satisfying? That was its own kind of study. Many of his male relatives who went out on their own became merchants, and Rikuson expected that was the path he, too, would choose.

He went from shop to shop, comparing flavors and prices and quantities, until he found the best dried fruit or goat’s milk and bought it. Then, he would go to the Shogi hall.

It was full of adults with time to kill jawing with each other—and there was much information to be had there. Rikuson might be able to hear even more talk at the tavern, but he wasn’t yet of age and they wouldn’t let him in.

There were plenty of drunks at the Shogi hall too—but once in a while you could run into a true master.

“Oh, hey there, kiddo. Back again?” asked an old man sitting at a Shogi board. He was a former secretary at the administrative building. He was mostly retired now, but he was collecting materials for some sort of new history he was compiling. He was the best Shogi player in the western capital. Everyone called him Big Lin.

“Uh-huh.” Rikuson seated himself beside Big Lin and studied the board. Sticking close to him would keep the nastier drunks away.

Then Rikuson tilted his head. “Huh?” Big Lin was losing this game. You didn’t see that often. Rikuson looked at his opponent and saw a man still more or less in the bloom of youth, but ragged, filthy. His face bore a fine stubble, his clothes were grimy, and his hair was barely tied in place. His outfit was nice enough, but it seemed his circumstances weren’t. He looked feeble, and had no tan; he didn’t seem to be a resident of the western capital. But his eyes—his eyes glinted like those of a fox.

“I see you have a little Pawn with you,” the man said—a Shogi piece. He wore a monocle over one of his fox-like eyes, an imported piece, but on this guy everything looked crude instead of fancy.

What did he mean by that? He seemed to be talking about Rikuson. He bristled at the expression, his hands balling into fists. “Who are you calling a Pawn?” he demanded.

“Don’t get upset, kid. Lakan’s just that kind of creature,” Big Lin said calmly.

“But he called me a Pawn!”

“What’s wrong with that? Most people, he just calls ’em Go stones.”

“Go stones...”

Rikuson wasn’t sure what the difference was between a Go stone and a Pawn. He looked at the board as he pondered the question. This “Lakan” might look suspicious and might mock everyone he met—but he backed it up by being a tremendous Shogi player. This was the first time Rikuson had ever seen Big Lin losing a game. Even if Big Lin wasn’t quite the player he had been in his youth, at the peak of his powers, people still called him the Shogi sage; it almost didn’t seem possible that he could lose. But this visitor seemed to be holding him to fifty-fifty in their games.

Curious, Rikuson came back the next day, and the day after that. Lakan was always there. (Did he even have a job?) When he wasn’t at the Shogi hall, Rikuson found out, he was at the Go hall. All he did was play games.

One day, Big Lin wasn’t there; Lakan was playing with some other people, but he looked awfully bored by it.

“It’s him again,” someone said. “The Yi boy!”

No one would have dared to say such a thing in the presence of Big Lin, but they felt no need to restrain themselves when Rikuson was alone.

Yi boy. A child of the Yi clan; that was what they were calling him. The Yi clan ruled the western capital, but there were many who resented their unique system of inheritance and were all too ready to speak ill of them.

Generation to generation, the Yi clan was ruled by women; any boys who were born left their homes when they came of age. Yi women did not have husbands, and didn’t know who the fathers of their children were. Like animals, some sneered.

Rikuson knew that such contempt was to be expected. Many members of the nomadic tribes passed through the western capital, and those tribes had always had a strong patriarchal bent. They even denigrated children of unknown fathers as “Yi spawn.”

For all that, Rikuson still felt the pride of knowing that the Yi had protected these western reaches for centuries.

Without Big Lin there, he did the next best thing and sat down beside Lakan. They’d met several times now, but the other man had made no effort to remember Rikuson. In fact, he made no effort to remember anybody. He just sat in front of his Shogi board; if someone put a few coins on the table, he would play. That was it. The most he might do is compare someone to a Shogi piece based on whether they were weak or strong, or perhaps by some other standard.

“Mister, don’t you remember faces?”

“I don’t get people’s faces,” Lakan said. He might be a grown-up, but he didn’t talk like one.

“What’s to get? You see them a few times, you remember them, right?”

“I only see Go stones. Or Shogi pieces if I’m lucky.”

This made no sense to Rikuson, but he didn’t think Lakan was lying. Distinguishing people’s faces was probably no easier for him than telling livestock apart was for most people. Among the nomadic tribes, it was said that some herdsmen could distinguish each and every one of their sheep—but Rikuson could never do that. Maybe Lakan saw people’s faces the same way Rikuson saw sheep.

“Well, what do you do when you 
really
 need to remember who someone is?”

Lakan was silent for a moment. As he mulled over Rikuson’s question, he continued a merciless game of Shogi. His opponent blanched, acknowledged he was defeated, and put some coins on the table. Maybe Lakan was supporting himself by wagering on Shogi games?

Finally he said, “I remember them by the shape of their ears, or their height. I look at the quality of their hair. Memorize the stink of their sweat. Or I listen for the pitch of their voice...”

“Wouldn’t it be easier to just remember their face?”

“I don’t get faces. I can see people have eyes and a nose and a mouth, but when I try to put them together, they get all tangled up and all I can see is a Go stone. Now, the size of a person’s nostrils, the length of their eyelashes—those, I can understand.”

So he didn’t remember an entire face, just specific details about it. That sounded exhausting. No wonder he only did it for the most important people.

“Did you come from the central region, mister?” Rikuson asked.

“Yeah, and one of these days I’ll go back. I’ve got to.” Lakan casually smashed his next opponent as he spoke.

“The central region,” Rikuson murmured. His mother had told him to become the wind and blow on his way, but would she approve of him going as far as the royal capital? If wind he was to be, he wanted to travel as far as wind might.

“Mister,” he said. “If I become big and famous in the central region, will you give me a job?”

“Hrm? You move up from being a Pawn, sure.”

“All right. It’s a deal.”

His sister had taught him that it was always a good thing to make connections. Rikuson didn’t know if he would become a merchant or not, but it couldn’t hurt to get to know everyone he could.

In the evenings, the whole clan ate together. Rikuson was surrounded by women. The bloodline produced a lot of them to begin with, and since the only other boy had come of age last year, Rikuson was the only male child left.

There were three little girls, though, sisters born in successive years. Cousins of Rikuson. They looked much alike—the same father, perhaps. They were three, four, and five years old, and while the oldest had proved quite smart, the younger two couldn’t really talk yet, and Rikuson often found himself obliged to look after them.

His older sister was already past the age of adulthood and was accepted among the grown-ups.

He listened to the adults talk as he fed his cousins. They spoke of food provisions, imported goods, and Li’s exports.

Rikuson’s mother was a central figure in the clan. Her younger sister, Rikuson’s aunt, was the current ruler of the Yi; she had not borne any daughters, and as things stood it was Rikuson’s older sister, well qualified by age and ability, who was next in line to lead. So people went out of their way to include Rikuson’s sister in their discussions.

From what he overheard, Rikuson gathered that foreign trade was in a bad place right now. They had been in the red for years, to the point that the central region was giving them a hard time about it. Long ago, they had produced copious quantities of high-quality paper, but these days there was only inferior stuff to be had. Paper, light and convenient to transport, had been a major product for them, and Rikuson’s mother and the others struggled to find a replacement for it.

Worse, there had been an insect plague in I-sei Province. The increased farmlands, themselves the natural result of the western capital’s burgeoning population, were to blame. All the royal capital could see was the harvest numbers, and since those remained high, they refused to send any support. But the extra people meant even less food to go around.

“We should bring out the black stone,” his aunt said. His mother, and his sister, and his mother’s older sister, and all the women of the clan could only nod their assent.

Rikuson did not know what the black stone was; he just continued feeding bread to his three-year-old cousin.

In the evenings, his sister and mother would teach him the history of I-sei Province.

When the nation of Li was founded, they said, the three children from the belly of Wang Mu, the Mother Royal, became the leaders of the three provinces.

At first the Yi clan, which ruled the west, struggled terribly. In this land, the tendency to put men ahead of women was especially strong. People mocked the Yi because their progenitor was a woman; people took advantage of them and at one point it seemed the clan might fall apart. Sycophants tried to steal their name with flattery, while others sought to do it through force.

So, in order that their clan might not be seized from within, they adopted a matriarchal system. They did not bring husbands into their houses. All their successors were women.

Special roles emerged for men of the Yi clan. One of them was to become the wind. The wind—or again, hearers of things.

They went here and there in I-sei Province, gathering information. As merchants, as nomads. Those who became nomads later came to be known as the Windreader tribe, and could employ birds and keep the bugs at bay.

Only, there had been a miscalculation. The Windreader tribe had been destroyed decades ago.

There had been several Windreader tribes, and one of them ceased their regular communication with the Yi. For years, decades, then centuries, they maintained their separation from the clan. The Yi would occasionally send a boy to try to strengthen the bonds of blood, but there were no guarantees that the tribe would swear allegiance to a former clan leader indefinitely. Eventually, there appeared some who sought to profit by communicating with other countries.

Then came the attack. The Windreader tribe that was no longer communicating with the Yi was tragically annihilated by another tribe. Some idiot had decided that the ability to control birds must be passed down by blood and had kidnapped one of their women, trying to gain the power for himself. Then, in order that he would have a monopoly on the power, he killed the others and sold any survivors into slavery.

The Yi could not abide the Windreaders who had spurned to communicate with them. They broke up the remaining Windreaders as well, sending those with any useful abilities to live in town. Once in a while, Rikuson understood, they also quietly disposed of anyone who would misuse the tribe’s avian practices.

If the Windreader tribe had continued to exist, another choice would have been open to Rikuson. He could have wandered the plains as one of their members.

Rikuson’s mother and sister never did teach him how to handle the birds, but they taught him how to ward off the insects, and told him about how things worked in the farming villages that continued to dot the area. If another plague broke out, the Yi men who lived around the province would be better prepared than anyone.

One of the men who had left the Yi clan often visited Rikuson’s house. He was a broad-shouldered, middle-aged man with a gentle smile. His name was Gyokuen. In the western capital, he was sometimes called “the new You.”

He had a full, kindly face, and he often gave Rikuson candy.

“He looks like a very intelligent boy. Might I take him as my son?” he asked Rikuson’s mother.

“Please. You’re joking,” she replied. “People already laugh at you, say you have too many wives. You old womanizer.”

“Ahh, so long as I can keep my wives and children in style, there’s no problem.”

Rikuson found he was surprised by this revelation: for all his modest looks, Gyokuen loved women.

Gyokuen was an important merchant in the western capital. He had begun producing textiles and pottery to export instead of paper, and controlled the importation of glassware. He began making grape wine in I-sei Province and sold it alongside the foreign kind. Some people with highly cultivated tastes preferred the imported wine, but there was also a market for the much cheaper, less acidic local variety.

“And there you have it. I’m going to be taking a visit to Shaoh to do some buying, in order to support my wife and children.”

“Well, well. Can the household survive with its master gone for so long?”

“My children are now mostly grown. My eldest has a wife and child of his own. Anyway, so long as my quick-witted wife is around, everything will be taken care of.”

“I’ve heard about your oldest son. They say he’s 
very
 capable.”

“Ah, yes. He’s an excellent worker. But I do have some misgivings about him.”

“Like what?”

“He’s set on helping the western capital flourish, and I applaud that, but at the same time he has...an exclusionary bent. He hates foreigners.” Gyokuen’s normally composed face darkened.

“This eldest son of yours, he’s Seibo’s child, isn’t he? Surely you don’t need to worry about 
her
 boy?”

“Seibo? Only my family uses that name, and only in private. How do you know it?”

“Hah. People talk, you know. They say the ‘new Mister You’ has many concubines, but treasures his true wife most of all. Rumor is that he disregards the western chieftain and calls his wife Seibo, ‘the western mother.’”

Rikuson’s mother grinned at Gyokuen, who couldn’t help but smile in response. “It seems you’ve got me there,” he said. “But enough about my family. There’s something more important afoot. Have I heard correctly that you’ve begun giving out the black stone?”

There was that phrase again, Rikuson thought.

“Yes. The poor harvest, you know—no other choice. I think you’ve got a bit of a hand in that particular trade yourself,” Rikuson’s mother said. His older sister listened silently. Rikuson seemed to be the only one who didn’t know what they were talking about.

“Yes, but I’m doing it on the up-and-up. If you’re having trouble, I should be able to give you at least some support.”

Rikuson’s mother and sister both looked grave.

“It’s time for you to go to sleep,” his sister said, trying to shoo him out of the room.

“But I’m not tired,” said Rikuson.

“It’s late enough. Time for bed.”

She chased him into the bedroom next door. Frustrated, Rikuson pretended to go to sleep, but soon he had his ear pressed to the wall, listening.

“And what would we have to do to earn your support?” He heard his mother’s voice, slightly muffled by the wall.

“Please. You make me sound uncharitable.”

“Yi men are raised to give nothing away as merchants. And you 
are
 an Yi man, aren’t you, Gyokuen?”

“Got me again.” After a brief pause, he said, “I want you to let me borrow the family register.”

The family register. That was a record of where the people in I-sei Province had come from and when they had arrived. There were those without a register, but if they wanted to do business in the western capital, they would have to make one—have to prove who and what they were.

“Absolutely not. That’s an official document. If you want to ‘borrow’ it, I can only assume you want to change something. That would explain why you’re talking to me and not the chieftain.”

“You won’t budge on this?” Gyokuen asked.

“No. Anyway, the family register is already on loan—to Big Lin, as reference material.”

“Oh...” Gyokuen sounded disappointed.

“Why would you want to change the family register, anyway?”

“It’s about that eldest child of mine.”

“Your son?”

“Yes. Gyoku-ou. The register contains the honest truth about his origins. I think he hates foreigners because he realized where he comes from.”

Rikuson continued to eavesdrop, although he was somewhat lost by this conversation.

“There’s no end of former Windreaders who come to make demands of me on my wife’s account. My business has grown considerably. Imagine what people would say if my own successor had no blood connection to me. If you believe that the western capital needs the ‘new You’ family, then please, help me.”

Although he couldn’t see him, Rikuson could almost picture the distress on Gyokuen’s face.

“Your first wife, Seibo... She came from the Windreaders herself, didn’t she?” Rikuson’s mother asked.

“Yes, that’s right. From the traitor tribe of Windreaders that I was supposed to join. I should have been her husband there. Should have deepened and strengthened our ties.”

This was the Windreader tribe that had been destroyed so long ago.

“Yes, my wife was from the tribe that betrayed us. But it was the adults who committed that treachery. The children knew nothing of it. Whenever I saw her after that, she always looked just as she had those years ago. We did see each other a number of times, you know.”

Rikuson wanted to hear more, but he sensed his sister coming over to the bedroom and quickly dived into bed.

“Sister... What is the black stone?” he asked, trying to sound sleepy.

“It’s not something you need to know about yet,” she said.

“But you told me... You told me to study. That I shouldn’t be ignorant.”

His sister paused, then said, “The black stone is coal. A rock that burns. We have to dig and dig and dig in the western mountains for it.”

“What makes it...so special?”

“When there’s a bad harvest, many families barely have enough to eat and can’t buy fuel, right?”

“Uh-huh.”

“We give it to those families.”

“Huh...”

That didn’t sound like such a bad thing.

“But it’s hard to dig up the stone, right?” Rikuson asked.

“Yes, very hard. We use slaves.”

“‘Slaves’?”

His sister didn’t look very happy about it. “We don’t want to, but we do. The more they mine, the quicker they’re freed. I’ve heard that the quickest workers get out in five years.”

“What about the slowest?”

“Decades. Some of them used to be Windreaders, you know.”

“And them... You won’t let them go?”

His sister shook her head. “They betrayed us. Your late grandmother happened to find them as slaves and heard the story. They said they’d planned to take the secret of how to use the birds and go to another country with it. They said it was foolish, having women rulers and making the men leave. Over such a long time as nomads, I guess they started to think that other lands were right to put men ahead of women.”

“And that’s why Grandma sent them to the mine?”

“Yes. She thought that if they dug well, she could free them. She bought several more former Windreader slaves. But those people said they’d been tricked. Apparently they thought Grandmother would free them even if they sat around doing nothing. Gyokuen, he’s too soft on people. He frees slaves as soon as he buys them.”

Rikuson’s sister seemed to see this as a problem. Rikuson wanted to ask more questions, about Gyokuen and his wife and his eldest son, but he refrained. It would be too obvious that he had been eavesdropping.

“But if the slaves work hard in the mine, eventually they can be free and leave, right?” he asked.

“Yes, but it’s dangerous work. The ones who have been there for decades, maybe that shows they aren’t doing anything. Maybe they think we’re the ones who are evil and wrong.”

They
, she added, 
must hate us.

They must hate us.

At whom had his sister’s words been directed?

He didn’t know. He did know, however, that the Yi clan was held in contempt by a great many.

There was a commotion that day, starting first thing in the morning. People surrounded the mansion; they seemed to be voicing some kind of complaint. Rikuson held his terrified cousins and tried to comfort them, but he didn’t know what was happening any more than they did.

“Elder Sister, what is this? What’s all the noise outside?” he asked.

“It’s nothing. Everything is fine,” she said. But it clearly wasn’t. Her face was bloodless, pale.

Their mother came and spoke to his cousins’ mother. A different aunt from the one who led the clan, the cousins’ mother was the youngest sister of Rikuson’s mother, well separated in years.

“Go out the back. Take the children with you,” Rikuson’s mother said. The children included him. “The house of Gyokuen’s newest wife—the new You family, you know them—isn’t far. I’m sure you remember her. The former dancing girl? Her children are almost the same age as yours. You’re close with her.”

“B-But—”

“No buts! Take them and go!” Rikuson’s mother said, her tone commanding. She all but chased her sister out of the house, and Rikuson along with her.

His mother and his other aunt, the leader of the clan, went out front. They stood there talking to the mob, which looked like it was at a breaking point. Rikuson understood that they were buying time.

“Let’s go, while we have the chance.”

Rikuson, his aunt, and his cousins slipped out the back of the house. When they went to the house of Gyokuen’s newest wife, they found a woman with red hair and green eyes. When she saw Rikuson and the others, she gestured them around to a back entrance.

“Wh-What in the world is going on?” the cousins’ mother asked. Unlike Rikuson’s mother and other aunt, she was an easygoing woman, and was rarely included in the household discussions on even terms with his mother and the others. She didn’t fully grasp what was happening.

“They’re saying the Yi clan has been dishonest—and that it’s been reported to the central government!” The red-haired woman looked down as she spoke, her eyes shaded by long eyelashes.

“Dishonest?” Rikuson’s aunt asked.

“Yes... They say they’ve been lying about the amount of coal we mined.”

“The black stone? 
Now
 they have a problem?” his aunt said, incensed. She sounded like she couldn’t believe what she was hearing.

“It gets worse,” the red-haired woman said.

“Worse?”

“They say the clan is making claims beyond its station—that it claims to have within the clan a man descended from the Imperial lineage, and that they Yi say this makes them the rightful heirs to the throne. And so an Imperial edict was issued...for the destruction of the traitors who would usurp the Imperial family.”

“No... That’s not possible.”

Rikuson’s aunt and the red-haired woman glanced at him.

“Surely the charges are false,” the woman said.

“Of course they are!”

“But who 
is
 the father?”

“W-Well...”