There had been several Windreader tribes, and one of them ceased their regular communication with the Yi. For years, decades, then centuries, they maintained their separation from the clan. The Yi would occasionally send a boy to try to strengthen the bonds of blood, but there were no guarantees that the tribe would swear allegiance to a former clan leader indefinitely. Eventually, there appeared some who sought to profit by communicating with other countries.

Then came the attack. The Windreader tribe that was no longer communicating with the Yi was tragically annihilated by another tribe. Some idiot had decided that the ability to control birds must be passed down by blood and had kidnapped one of their women, trying to gain the power for himself. Then, in order that he would have a monopoly on the power, he killed the others and sold any survivors into slavery.

If the Windreader tribe had continued to exist, another choice would have been open to Rikuson. He could have wandered the plains as one of their members.

Rikuson’s mother and sister never did teach him how to handle the birds, but they taught him how to ward off the insects, and told him about how things worked in the farming villages that continued to dot the area. If another plague broke out, the Yi men who lived around the province would be better prepared than anyone.

One of the men who had left the Yi clan often visited Rikuson’s house. He was a broad-shouldered, middle-aged man with a gentle smile. His name was Gyokuen. In the western capital, he was sometimes called “the new You.”

He had a full, kindly face, and he often gave Rikuson candy.

“He looks like a very intelligent boy. Might I take him as my son?” he asked Rikuson’s mother.

“Please. You’re joking,” she replied. “People already laugh at you, say you have too many wives. You old womanizer.”

“Ahh, so long as I can keep my wives and children in style, there’s no problem.”

Rikuson found he was surprised by this revelation: for all his modest looks, Gyokuen loved women.

Gyokuen was an important merchant in the western capital. He had begun producing textiles and pottery to export instead of paper, and controlled the importation of glassware. He began making grape wine in I-sei Province and sold it alongside the foreign kind. Some people with highly cultivated tastes preferred the imported wine, but there was also a market for the much cheaper, less acidic local variety.

“And there you have it. I’m going to be taking a visit to Shaoh to do some buying, in order to support my wife and children.”

“Well, well. Can the household survive with its master gone for so long?”

“My children are now mostly grown. My eldest has a wife and child of his own. Anyway, so long as my quick-witted wife is around, everything will be taken care of.”

“I’ve heard about your oldest son. They say he’s 
very
 capable.”

“Ah, yes. He’s an excellent worker. But I do have some misgivings about him.”

“He’s set on helping the western capital flourish, and I applaud that, but at the same time he has...an exclusionary bent. He hates foreigners.” Gyokuen’s normally composed face darkened.

“This eldest son of yours, he’s Seibo’s child, isn’t he? Surely you don’t need to worry about 
her
 boy?”

“Seibo? Only my family uses that name, and only in private. How do you know it?”

“Hah. People talk, you know. They say the ‘new Mister You’ has many concubines, but treasures his true wife most of all. Rumor is that he disregards the western chieftain and calls his wife Seibo, ‘the western mother.’”

Rikuson’s mother grinned at Gyokuen, who couldn’t help but smile in response. “It seems you’ve got me there,” he said. “But enough about my family. There’s something more important afoot. Have I heard correctly that you’ve begun giving out the black stone?”

“Yes. The poor harvest, you know—no other choice. I think you’ve got a bit of a hand in that particular trade yourself,” Rikuson’s mother said. His older sister listened silently. Rikuson seemed to be the only one who didn’t know what they were talking about.

“Yes, but I’m doing it on the up-and-up. If you’re having trouble, I should be able to give you at least some support.”

Rikuson’s mother and sister both looked grave.

“It’s time for you to go to sleep,” his sister said, trying to shoo him out of the room.

“But I’m not tired,” said Rikuson.

“It’s late enough. Time for bed.”

She chased him into the bedroom next door. Frustrated, Rikuson pretended to go to sleep, but soon he had his ear pressed to the wall, listening.

“And what would we have to do to earn your support?” He heard his mother’s voice, slightly muffled by the wall.

“Please. You make me sound uncharitable.”

“Yi men are raised to give nothing away as merchants. And you 
are
 an Yi man, aren’t you, Gyokuen?”

“Got me again.” After a brief pause, he said, “I want you to let me borrow the family register.”

The family register. That was a record of where the people in I-sei Province had come from and when they had arrived. There were those without a register, but if they wanted to do business in the western capital, they would have to make one—have to prove who and what they were.

“Absolutely not. That’s an official document. If you want to ‘borrow’ it, I can only assume you want to change something. That would explain why you’re talking to me and not the chieftain.”

“You won’t budge on this?” Gyokuen asked.

“No. Anyway, the family register is already on loan—to Big Lin, as reference material.”

“Oh...” Gyokuen sounded disappointed.

“Why would you want to change the family register, anyway?”

“It’s about that eldest child of mine.”

“Your son?”

“Yes. Gyoku-ou. The register contains the honest truth about his origins. I think he hates foreigners because he realized where he comes from.”

Rikuson continued to eavesdrop, although he was somewhat lost by this conversation.

“There’s no end of former Windreaders who come to make demands of me on my wife’s account. My business has grown considerably. Imagine what people would say if my own successor had no blood connection to me. If you believe that the western capital needs the ‘new You’ family, then please, help me.”

Although he couldn’t see him, Rikuson could almost picture the distress on Gyokuen’s face.

“Your first wife, Seibo... She came from the Windreaders herself, didn’t she?” Rikuson’s mother asked.

“Yes, that’s right. From the traitor tribe of Windreaders that I was supposed to join. I should have been her husband there. Should have deepened and strengthened our ties.”

This was the Windreader tribe that had been destroyed so long ago.

“Yes, my wife was from the tribe that betrayed us. But it was the adults who committed that treachery. The children knew nothing of it. Whenever I saw her after that, she always looked just as she had those years ago. We did see each other a number of times, you know.”

Rikuson wanted to hear more, but he sensed his sister coming over to the bedroom and quickly dived into bed.

“Sister... What is the black stone?” he asked, trying to sound sleepy.

“It’s not something you need to know about yet,” she said.

“But you told me... You told me to study. That I shouldn’t be ignorant.”

His sister paused, then said, “The black stone is coal. A rock that burns. We have to dig and dig and dig in the western mountains for it.”

“What makes it...so special?”

“When there’s a bad harvest, many families barely have enough to eat and can’t buy fuel, right?”

“Uh-huh.”

“We give it to those families.”

“Huh...”

That didn’t sound like such a bad thing.

“But it’s hard to dig up the stone, right?” Rikuson asked.

“Yes, very hard. We use slaves.”

“‘Slaves’?”

His sister didn’t look very happy about it. “We don’t want to, but we do. The more they mine, the quicker they’re freed. I’ve heard that the quickest workers get out in five years.”

“What about the slowest?”

“Decades. Some of them used to be Windreaders, you know.”

“And them... You won’t let them go?”

His sister shook her head. “They betrayed us. Your late grandmother happened to find them as slaves and heard the story. They said they’d planned to take the secret of how to use the birds and go to another country with it. They said it was foolish, having women rulers and making the men leave. Over such a long time as nomads, I guess they started to think that other lands were right to put men ahead of women.”

“And that’s why Grandma sent them to the mine?”

“Yes. She thought that if they dug well, she could free them. She bought several more former Windreader slaves. But those people said they’d been tricked. Apparently they thought Grandmother would free them even if they sat around doing nothing. Gyokuen, he’s too soft on people. He frees slaves as soon as he buys them.”

Rikuson’s sister seemed to see this as a problem. Rikuson wanted to ask more questions, about Gyokuen and his wife and his eldest son, but he refrained. It would be too obvious that he had been eavesdropping.

“But if the slaves work hard in the mine, eventually they can be free and leave, right?” he asked.

“Yes, but it’s dangerous work. The ones who have been there for decades, maybe that shows they aren’t doing anything. Maybe they think we’re the ones who are evil and wrong.”

They
, she added, 
must hate us.

They must hate us.

At whom had his sister’s words been directed?

He didn’t know. He did know, however, that the Yi clan was held in contempt by a great many.

There was a commotion that day, starting first thing in the morning. People surrounded the mansion; they seemed to be voicing some kind of complaint. Rikuson held his terrified cousins and tried to comfort them, but he didn’t know what was happening any more than they did.

“Elder Sister, what is this? What’s all the noise outside?” he asked.

“It’s nothing. Everything is fine,” she said. But it clearly wasn’t. Her face was bloodless, pale.

Their mother came and spoke to his cousins’ mother. A different aunt from the one who led the clan, the cousins’ mother was the youngest sister of Rikuson’s mother, well separated in years.

“Go out the back. Take the children with you,” Rikuson’s mother said. The children included him. “The house of Gyokuen’s newest wife—the new You family, you know them—isn’t far. I’m sure you remember her. The former dancing girl? Her children are almost the same age as yours. You’re close with her.”

“B-But—”

“No buts! Take them and go!” Rikuson’s mother said, her tone commanding. She all but chased her sister out of the house, and Rikuson along with her.

His mother and his other aunt, the leader of the clan, went out front. They stood there talking to the mob, which looked like it was at a breaking point. Rikuson understood that they were buying time.

“Let’s go, while we have the chance.”

Rikuson, his aunt, and his cousins slipped out the back of the house. When they went to the house of Gyokuen’s newest wife, they found a woman with red hair and green eyes. When she saw Rikuson and the others, she gestured them around to a back entrance.

“Wh-What in the world is going on?” the cousins’ mother asked. Unlike Rikuson’s mother and other aunt, she was an easygoing woman, and was rarely included in the household discussions on even terms with his mother and the others. She didn’t fully grasp what was happening.

“They’re saying the Yi clan has been dishonest—and that it’s been reported to the central government!” The red-haired woman looked down as she spoke, her eyes shaded by long eyelashes.

“Dishonest?” Rikuson’s aunt asked.

“Yes... They say they’ve been lying about the amount of coal we mined.”

“The black stone? 
Now
 they have a problem?” his aunt said, incensed. She sounded like she couldn’t believe what she was hearing.

“It gets worse,” the red-haired woman said.

“Worse?”

“They say the clan is making claims beyond its station—that it claims to have within the clan a man descended from the Imperial lineage, and that they Yi say this makes them the rightful heirs to the throne. And so an Imperial edict was issued...for the destruction of the traitors who would usurp the Imperial family.”

“No... That’s not possible.”

Rikuson’s aunt and the red-haired woman glanced at him.

“Surely the charges are false,” the woman said.

“Of course they are!”

“But who 
is
 the father?”

“W-Well...”