Gyokuen, distressed, whispered, “Yes. Ou, it was Ou. My other sons had no hand in this.”

“Why! Why?! Why would he do something so awful?!”

“The register. I think he wanted to bury the truth. The uprising was a perfect cover. That boy, he’s not mine by blood, you see. His mother was a former slave, and his father is a foreigner. As a survivor of a former Windreader tribe, maybe he hated the Yi clan.”

“I know what you mean...” Rikuson remembered the talk about lending the family register to Gyokuen, about changing it, and he tried his best to put it all together in his head. “You think you can escape the blame, just because he’s not your child?”

Gyokuen shook his head. “All the blame lies with me. I should have acknowledged Ou as my son from the start. I should have made sure everything was in order so that nothing would trouble him.”

“Then you shouldn’t have kept collecting concubines! No wonder they call you Womanizing You!” Rikuson spat. Gyokuen shrank into himself. “Gyoku-ou wasn’t your real son, but you kept giving him little brothers and sisters! Isn’t that why he thought it was worth instigating a rebellion over a stupid family register?!”

“You’re right. Yes, you’re right. But it’s not just Ou. None of my other children are mine by blood.”

“
What
?” Rikuson was set back on his heels. When the man had so many wives and offspring...how?

“I think it may just be that I’m not physically able to produce children. My first wife gave birth to Ou, yes, but she and I were never able to conceive a child together. I feel terrible, but though I tried with others, it was never any use.”

Rikuson worked his mouth open and shut. “So... So all of the others are...? What about that girl, the one they call You?”

“A merchant with no offspring could never hold his head up. I sought out widows who were already pregnant—the most intelligent women I could find.” Gyokuen looked out the carriage window. “Life in the western capital is hard for a mother and child with no husband or father to care for them. But that vulnerability was also an opportunity. As a merchant, I offered an absolute contract. I guaranteed to provide for them and their children, and in exchange the mothers would furnish me with their skills in a particular field. Moreover, Ou alone was to be my true son, so that no one would get any ideas of taking over the family from him. That part was a secret from my children.”

“They all believe I’m their real father. Or at least they did. But Ou found out. He discovered he wasn’t my son by birth. And there were many who threatened to use the truth of his circumstances against him.”

Rikuson looked, and saw only a plump man holding his head in his hands.

“Money shut most of them up, but some wanted more. It was my intention to simply always treat Gyoku-ou as my true son.”

But all Gyokuen’s work had been in vain.

“Even once he knew I wasn’t his father, Ou continued to act as if I were. So I taught him things. Told him things that would help him.”

“Huh.” Rikuson could not have cared less. If he found room to sympathize, then he would have to forgive—and if that happened, then he would prefer never to have heard any of this.

“In the course of conducting business alongside me, Ou began to fixate on the black stone. Many of his supporters in this rebellion were people who bore a grudge against the Yi clan—including many former Windreaders. Many of them had been working in the mines, you understand.”

That must have been where Gyoku-ou had learned of the deception around the quantity of black stone being extracted.

“So the whole reason he brought down the Yi clan was because of the Windreaders’ misplaced resentment? Aren’t you going to punish your ‘son’? If you’re an Yi man, if you’re a protector of western capital, then you can at least do that much!”

“Yes, a desire for revenge as a member of the Windreaders was one of his reasons. Destroying the family register was another. But there was a third.”

“How many reasons did he need?”

Gyokuen looked at Rikuson. “Ou was under the misimpression that a child of the Yi clan was my true son.”

At that, Rikuson bit his lip.

“He looks like a very intelligent boy. Might I take him as my son?”

Gyokuen had wanted to take in an Yi child. Rikuson had heard him negotiating with his mother himself. Had that offhanded joke motivated the destruction of his entire clan?

That was why Gyoku-ou had invented the talk about the Imperial bloodline: to wipe out Rikuson.

His sister had been a fool. It was she who should have survived, not him. She was so much more important.

Why had she let Rikuson live?

And why should he speak to Gyokuen now?

Rikuson was seized by the desire to throw himself at Gyokuen and beat him to a pulp. They were in a carriage; maybe Rikuson could fling him out of it. Gyokuen still had the wound on his leg from where he had bitten him; even a child like Rikuson could kill one portly man like Gyokuen, if he was willing to go down with him.

He remembered what his sister had said.

“You must protect the western lands. That’s what the Yi men do. Employ any means, use any people you must.”

Rikuson couldn’t let himself die here. In order not to harm the western lands, he would go to the central region, to a place where no one knew who Rikuson was.

He bit his lip and let his nails dig into his knees. Somehow he managed to swallow the killing urge with the saliva in his mouth.

“Was the last reason the central authority? That 
stupid
 Imperial edict?”

He remembered the red-haired woman talking about it. The Emperor must be incompetent. He thought he remembered hearing that the Empress Dowager was in such thorough control of politics that people called her the Empress Regnant. Without the fig leaf of that edict, Gyoku-ou, even Gyoku-ou, wouldn’t have been able to destroy the Yi clan.

“I’m given to understand that that edict wasn’t what the government really wanted.”

“Excuse me?” Rikuson said, aghast. What, had they somehow 
accidentally
 issued the wrong edict?

“It bore the Emperor’s seal, but not that of the Empress Regnant—ahem, I mean, the Empress Dowager.”

So it had been issued by the puppet, not the puppeteer? Was that the problem?

“His Majesty’s health has been poor for some years now, and his mother, the Empress Dowager, is no longer a young woman herself.”

“And with one poorly conceived edict, they...”

“Yes. They knew the accusations of imperial bastardy were unfounded, but the deception about the quantities of black stone that had been mined, that couldn’t be hidden forever.”

“Y-Yes, but...”

So the Yi clan bore fault as well. The way they had shored up poor harvests and bad circumstances with the black stone had worked until now, but it was bound to fall apart eventually.

“That’s why I am going to take this opportunity to seize mining rights from the central government,” Gyokuen said.

The pudgy, frail man had fire in his eyes. “The government doesn’t understand coal’s true value. In the royal capital, it fetches a mere fraction of what it’s worth here. And therein lies an opportunity.”

“You mean...”

“I will use that poorly conceived edict as my bargaining chip. It left a power vacuum in the west—and that is a grave problem.” Now Rikuson saw in Gyokuen’s eyes the assurance of a merchant in his element. “When I bring you to the central region, I will also appear at court as a member of the former Yi clan, to formally protest. This was done under my seal, so I bear responsibility.”

“But that would mean defying the government. What... What would happen to you? To your family?” Rikuson didn’t care in the least what happened to Gyokuen’s idiot son Ou, but then there was his wife, the woman who had harbored his cousins. She might not be related by blood, but he didn’t want to see her dragged into this.

“Here, look at this.” Gyokuen produced a basket from the floor by his feet. Inside were several pigeons. “This is why I sought to expand my business. He who controls the information controls the markets. They can hang me for my remonstrance; it won’t matter. The birds will let my family know before anything can happen to them, and not one of my wives is a weak woman, to be easily undone. We will not be snuffed out.” He pounded his belly as if it were a great drum. “Still not convinced?”

“No... Not yet.” Rikuson’s mind and emotions couldn’t keep up. He was still a child. He couldn’t tell whether an adult was lying.

“In that case, allow me to suggest some paperwork.”

“What do you mean?”

“I’m a businessman. And I favor those who will help to make the western capital great.”

A results-oriented mindset—he was a businessman indeed.

“At the same time, I flirt with danger. Almost by definition, my life will be shorter than my children’s. I fear that, when I am gone, one of them may grow greedy and try something.”

That seemed like something the man Ou would do, Rikuson thought. In fact, he already had.

“Should that happen, I want you to eliminate that child. And then 
you
 must protect the western capital.”

“What the hell...?”

Didn’t that still work out to him becoming Gyokuen’s successor after all? He would sooner die.

“After all this, 
now
 you’re going to ask me to wipe your ass?” Rikuson demanded.

“That’s not what I’m doing. This is the fate of men who become the wind.”

“Men who become the wind...”

Gyokuen, Rikuson realized, was just the kind of man his mother and sister had said he was.

It was a low-down, dirty way to get him. When he put it like that, Rikuson had no choice but to accept. No choice but to learn the same stubbornness under a gentle smile.

Rikuson would take his craggy heart and hone it with a polishing stone, working and working until it was smooth and beautiful. And then he would make himself sharp as a sword, prepared to strike down anyone, anyone at all, when the need arose.

“I believe we’ve arrived.”

Rikuson climbed out of the carriage to find himself at the port. There he saw a man behaving very strangely.

“No ships! No! You can’t make me get on one!” There he was, a full-grown man, clinging to a post and throwing a tantrum like a child.

“You 
have
 to get on the ship or you can’t get home. Come on, we finally found one to take you...”

“But—ships! I can’t! No ships!”

Rikuson recognized the man—it was Lakan. “Mister? What are you doing?” he asked before he could stop himself.

“Hrm? Who’re you? A shrimpy Pawn...”

Lakan had completely forgotten about Rikuson. He was used to that by now, but it was still annoying.

“You’re going back to the capital, aren’t you? Well, I think you’d have a better time on a boat than going overland.” Lurching around in a carriage and lurching around on a ship weren’t that different, so better to go with the quicker trip, Rikuson thought.

“Gnrr,” Lakan grumbled, but he shuffled onto the boat.

“You really can’t remember people’s faces, can you, Mister? Are you going to be all right?”

“Hrm... I 
guess
 it might be a problem when I make it in the world.”

“Then when you make your fortune, hire me! I’ll remember everyone’s faces for you and never forget. It’ll be good for you.”

“Hm, yeah, all right.”

It was the simplest of conversations—he never imagined that a decade later, it would actually come true. By then, the man who had come to be known as the freak strategist had completely forgotten about Rikuson.

In the end, the Yi clan was destroyed. Even in the face of a formal protest, the central government didn’t acknowledge that the Imperial edict had been mistaken, but they seemed to have reached a compromise.

Witness:

Item. Survivors of the Yi clan would not be hunted down.

Item. The name I-sei, the Western Yi, Province would be retained.

Item. Gyokuen, not “of the Yi clan” but “
formerly
 of the Yi clan,” would rule the western capital.

Item. I-sei Province would not pay taxes on the coal it mined—as a form of hush money. Unofficially, of course.

The Yi clan remained disgraced, but Gyokuen had chosen the flourishing of I-sei Province over honor. As much as it pained Rikuson to admit it, Gyokuen was his foremost model of a man who sought the good of the western capital before all else.