The Yi clan had a custom of not being explicit about who a child’s father was. This had been the way of their clan ever since, one time, a man had appeared claiming to be the father of the chieftain’s child in a bid to take over the clan. Even Rikuson didn’t know who his father was.

“It’s true that my sister went to the royal capital sometime before the boy was born, but the times don’t match up. He can’t be an Imperial child, and we certainly can’t insist that the father identify himself!”

His aunt was right: the Yi clan would never force a father to come forward and identify himself. Rikuson had relatives who were suspected of being the children of actors or foreign dignitaries, but no one said anything publicly. That was how the women of the Yi clan did politics.

“I can’t believe the central government would be foolish enough to take such a claim at face value—and to threaten to destroy us over it! Who even sent them such bogus claims?”

“I heard...” the red-haired woman started, and then she paused. “My family’s... Master Gyokuen’s seal was used in the letter.”

“What?” The aunt’s eyes went wide. Rikuson’s little cousins, distressed by their mother’s outburst, began to cry. He could do nothing except try to comfort them.

“Are you okay?” asked a little girl, coming over to them. She had red hair and green eyes herself. She began to comfort the young cousins.

“You, dear, would you take the children inside and entertain them?”

“Yes, Mother,” the red-haired girl said, taking the cousins by the hands. She tugged on Rikuson’s hand too, but he shook his head, refusing.

“Then you’re saying Master Gyokuen did this?!” Rikuson’s aunt demanded.

“No. My honored husband is on a trip to distant Shaoh. I’m sorry. I really don’t know anything else about it,” the red-haired woman said.

“Then... Then...”

“Come, you must change. I have a nursemaid’s outfit; you can use that. The way you’re dressed now, everyone will know you’re from the Yi clan.”

Rikuson’s aunt crumpled. The cousins were led away to a children’s room.

Rikuson wondered if it was safe to trust this red-haired woman.

And then he understood which one of them should absolutely not be there.

“N-No, stop!” the red-haired woman said, trying to hold him back, but he brushed her hand away and returned to the mansion. To talk of the mines was to talk of the black stone. Everything his mother and the others were doing, they were doing for I-sei Province. But the royal capital, which judged everything purely on the basis of superficial numbers, didn’t understand that.

The second problem, the false charges—Rikuson was key to it.

If I... If I’m there...

Even if he went to them, there was nothing he could do. And yet he had to go. An inexplicable sense of duty compelled him.

The mob was pressing in around the mansion. The people had knocked down and jumped on top of the guards, beating them with all their pent-up fury. Some onlookers hooted and shouted. Others looked pained by what was happening—but no one moved to help.

You never know what people will do in extreme circumstances.

That was something his mother had told him.

The atmosphere was almost festive. At times, people found violence pleasurable, and there were those who found the Yi clan repugnant, disgusted by the women who dared to rule the western capital.

Rikuson heard a shout like rending silk.

Was that—? No. No, it wasn’t. It wasn’t his older sister. Nor his mother.

He recognized some of the voices, but as terrible as it seemed, Rikuson had his priorities.

Pushing past men fixated only on violence and looting, he headed for the room where his sister and mother always were. Female clan members reached out, but he went by, silently repeating, I’m sorry, I’m sorry .

Now that these men had an excuse, they had turned into devils given over to their hunger.

Rikuson was bathed in sweat. His clenched fists were soaked; he panted and his tongue hung out of his mouth like an actual dog. The more water his body excreted, the more parched his throat became.

Each time he seemed about to cross paths with someone, he quickly hid. Despite his efforts, though, he was pinioned just outside his mother’s room. Rikuson kicked his feet, struggling.

“What are you doing here?!” someone whispered. It was his sister. Her face white, she clapped a hand over Rikuson’s mouth before he could shout. She looked different, somehow, from usual. She’d bundled up her hair and tied it with a scarf and was wearing men’s clothing.

“Older Sister. Where’s our mother? Why are you dressed like that?”

“Mother’s inside. And I’m just borrowing your coming-of-age ceremony clothes.”

“What?”

It was the outfit they had made for Rikuson’s coming-of-age two years hence. Assuming he would grow, they’d made it a little large; his mother had been planning to spend a long time embroidering it.

Hardly knowing what was going on, Rikuson found himself dragged into another room. His mother had a sword in her hand, the tip soaked in blood. Men lay dead all around her.

“Mother!” Rikuson said, but before he could speak further something was shoved into his mouth. His sister had torn up some cloth and rolled it up as a gag. Rikuson almost choked.

“Shut up, be quiet,” his sister commanded. “You talk too loud.”

“You mustn’t be noticed. You absolutely must not,” added his mother.

She and his sister bound Rikuson’s hands and feet and stuffed him into a large chest. Then they closed the lid and placed a heavy stone weight on top.

“You must protect the western lands. That’s what the Yi men do. Employ any means, use any people you must.” His sister smiled. He could see her teeth.

“Are we safe from fire here?”

“Yes, I should think so. There’s not much that will burn—and I’m sure they want to use the building again, anyway.”

Rikuson didn’t know what they were talking about. He could only stare out through the woven mesh of the chest.

“This doesn’t look half bad on me, does it, Mother?”

“No, not at all. I think that’s exactly what he’d look like in a few years. Now, don’t speak.”

“I know.”

Rikuson understood then what they were going to do. At that moment, he was the only male child in the Yi clan. If it was true that the mob believed the clan were Imperial pretenders, they would come after Rikuson.

His sister meant to serve as his body double.

Rikuson made another choked noise, but the gag kept him from crying out. His hands and feet were bound and he couldn’t move. But he could hear the mob drawing in, the bestial yells and the smell of oil and blood.

His mother brandished the sword.

Her swordsmanship was like a dance, the tip of the blade tracing perfect arcs through the air—but the strokes were light, ephemeral. They only nicked her opponents.

Stop! You have to stop this!

Rikuson bit down on the gag. Spit spilled around the edges, the bottom of the chest growing slick with saliva and tears.

He couldn’t do anything, and it agonized him.

He didn’t want to remember what was about to happen to his sister, to his mother. But the face of the man who would perpetrate that outrage—his face, alone, Rikuson had to commit to memory.

He couldn’t blink.

He knew that face. A member of the “new You” family he’d seen just once, on a visit to their household.

Gyokuen’s eldest son.

The front teeth glistening with saliva. The tanned skin. The bony hands. The shape of his ears and the quality of his hair. His voice, which carried like an actor’s. Rikuson didn’t just remember his face. He used all five senses to drink in as much information as he could, packing it into his brain. So that he would never forget...

As this man did his violence, there was righteousness in his eyes. An egoistic, worthless justice prepared to do anything, even evil, if it was necessary.

But also, a justice that would do anything to protect what mattered to him.

The Yi clan was about to be destroyed on a twisted pretext.

Rikuson’s emotions boiled within him; he felt as if a hot stone were being pressed against him. All the water seemed to be evaporating from his body, and yet he was still so hot that he felt he might begin to steam.

Him. 
He
 did this!

The man grabbed Rikuson’s sister by the head, dragging her along by her hair.

Rikuson wanted to beat the man. He wanted to kill him. But he couldn’t. Even if he could get out of this chest, the man would slaughter Rikuson before he could land a blow.

His sister and mother had known. That was why they had shut Rikuson in here. Why they had tied him up so he couldn’t do anything.

No more tears came to Rikuson’s eyes. He only cursed himself for his weakness, for being small and stupid and unable to do anything.

The rage and the curses were too much for Rikuson’s mind, and at some point he lost consciousness. He was brought around by a sound.

Were the men, the mob, still there? He couldn’t bear it any longer. Whatever it took, he would kill them.

Rikuson began to flail in the chest like a potato bug. Eventually, he succeeded in causing the stone weight to fall off the lid. He crawled and shuffled and pressed his face into the ground until he managed to get the gag out of his mouth; then he shouted in a hoarse voice, “I’ll gill you!”

Rikuson glowered as hard as he could at a man in front of him who was kneeling before the battered corpse of Rikuson’s mother and weeping.

“How could it turn out like this?” the man asked. He was plump; Rikuson remembered seeing a soft smile on his face.

It was Gyokuen.

Rikuson pitched forward, crawling toward Gyokuen and grabbing onto his feet. Normally, he might have been able to deal with things more rationally. The tears in Gyokuen’s eyes were of pity and regret; this was not a man on whom Rikuson needed to take revenge.

Yet at the same time, he was the father of the man Rikuson hated more than any other.

Gyokuen said nothing, only comforted Rikuson as the boy bit at him.

“I’m sorry. I’m sorry. It’s my fault. It’s all my fault.”

He didn’t care that Rikuson’s teeth sank into his leg; he didn’t care that the blood flowed. Gyokuen only kept trying to offer Rikuson comfort.

Gyokuen took the battered, filthy Rikuson to the home of the woman with red hair.

His aunt and cousins were still there. Unlike his mother and sister, his aunt had never come out front, and no one knew she belonged to the Yi clan. She was dressed as a nursemaid, hidden.

“You’re leaving, brother?” asked the oldest of the trio of sisters, Haku-u, tugging on his sleeve.

“Yes. I’ll be going a bit far away.”

Rikuson couldn’t stay in the western capital anymore. If he did, he was sure he would forget his mother’s and sister’s words. He could never forgive Gyokuen’s eldest son, Gyoku-ou, or those who had joined him in attacking the Yi. He could only harm the people who lived in this city. Though it took every ounce of his strength, he turned his back on his cousins.

“Hey...” A red-haired child called out to him. She was the one they called You, he thought.

“Yes, what?” Rikuson didn’t have time to be sweet and gentle just because she was so young.

“Do you hate Brother Gyoku-ou?”

“I don’t even want to hear his name.”

“Really? He hates me too. I wonder, will he come after me someday?”

Rikuson paused. “If he does, maybe I’ll help you. If I feel like it.”

With that, Rikuson boarded his carriage.

The carriage clattered along, carrying Rikuson to the port.

Much as it angered him, he had no choice but to turn to Gyokuen for help. A child of thirteen had no way to support himself on his own. There was someone in the capital, he was told, who’d once belonged to the Yi clan. This person had just lost a son Rikuson’s age, a boy who looked much like him, and this person was willing to take Rikuson in.

“Don’t worry about the family register. You can simply take over his name,” Gyokuen said. He didn’t intend to make the same mistake twice.

Rikuson still held a grudge against Gyokuen. This man had called himself the source of it all—so Rikuson thought he had a right to know why he and his had been attacked.

“Someone from the You family did it—while you were away! Why?! Was it your oldest son?!” Rikuson demanded.

“So you...”

“What?”