“Ohh. Was it too obvious?” Chue asked, but she didn’t deny it. “How’d you know it was me? I changed my hair color and the size of my eyes!”

“It was the shape of your ears. You have the loveliest ears, Miss Chue.”

“Eep! Are you really studying the ears of a married woman that closely?” The voice was Chue’s, but the nervous body language looked like a completely different person. She’d brought Rikuson a change of clothes, while managing to appear thoroughly horrified by the blood all over him.

“Do you think I’m going to meet my end when the physician begins his investigation?” Rikuson asked offhandedly.

“Dr. You is the physician in charge here. He’s a very dedicated worker, but a flexible thinker—and more than anything, he wants the western capital to be peaceful. Miss Maomao, now, she might start digging out of sheer curiosity. And the other two doctors, they’ve got their personal quirks.”

“I see what you mean. I’ll make it my business not to see Maomao again after this.” The thought saddened Rikuson, but there was no avoiding it. He could not take back what he had done.

“Good plan. Oh, and if you would be quiet about me too?” Chue said, not neglecting to hush him up.

“What would that be?” Rikuson could hear the distinctive voice clearly in his ear, yet to any onlookers, Chue might not even seem to be moving her lips. Her disguise was nearly perfect; even Rikuson might not have recognized her if they hadn’t spent so many days together in the farming village.

“You collected a little something from the room earlier, didn’t you, Miss Chue?”

She’d been so subtle about it that anyone else might not have noticed. But Rikuson saw that the position of Chue’s hand was a little different after she had entered the room than before.

“Aww, why do you have to be so sharp?” she said. Then she added, “Small Lin is the real victim here, isn’t he?” She was surprisingly frank about it.

“In that case, he must have come here to make some demand on the basis of that stolen thing. Specifically, a family register, yes?”

“Please, don’t say any more. Miss Chue’s head might not stay attached to her shoulders!” Chue said, although she didn’t sound very worried. She was, however, taking care that there was no one else around.

“Might I ask that you dispose of this object you obtained as quickly as possible?” Rikuson did not and would not forgive Gyoku-ou, but neither did he intend to besmirch his memory.

“I’ll have to ask my superiors.”

“It would benefit everyone, getting rid of that thing. What if it became public knowledge that the Empress’s real father was some nobody from nowhere?” Rikuson sensed that Chue already knew the truth.

“I know, I know, it wouldn’t be any fun at all.” She still sounded unruffled, but her face was slightly more tense than before. She must be a very capable spy. Rikuson wondered if she might simply snuff him out, but he liked to think she wouldn’t.

If someone investigated the family register, it was possible that they might uncover Empress Gyokuyou’s true father. One could see who her mother’s previous husband had been, and even if he were dead, his family could be investigated. That would be no good at all.

“Miss Chue knows why this family register is bad news for her, but what makes 
you
 want to get rid of it, Mister Rikuson?”

“It’s nothing special. It’s simply, if you make a deal with someone and then their secret is exposed, the deal becomes worthless, doesn’t it?”

He wasn’t doing this for Gyoku-ou—the man who would have foolishly exposed the entire western region to danger. That great mass of inferiority toward Gyokuen.

There was one reason, and one reason only, that Rikuson wanted to destroy the family register—and that was because he felt a duty to Gyokuen.

“Understood! I’ll talk to my superiors about it.” Chue handed Rikuson the change of clothes, and then she went off somewhere, disguise and all.

“It doesn’t seem like she directly serves the Moon Prince,” Rikuson mused, but he wouldn’t pry any deeper. For one thing, he now had a guilty conscience.

Rikuson went back to his room, where he closed the door and knelt down. He desperately wanted to change his bloodied clothes, but his body wouldn’t move.

“I don’t understand. It’s supposed to be over.” Tears began falling from his eyes. 
Ploop-ploop-ploop.
 “Am I wrong? Is it only just beginning?”

He sniffled like a crying child. As a grown adult, it was embarrassing—but at that moment he felt his mother and sister watching over him.

What’s more, for some reason, Lakan had covered for him.

“I didn’t lie...but he should have known it wasn’t the truth.”

What an uncharacteristic thing his former boss had done, he thought.

His next thought was that he would go on. In order to protect the western lands, he would live, he would continue to be the wind.