Suiren set the medicine gently in front of Jinshi. In fact, it was closer to a broth; Maomao had settled on a sort of soup because trying too hard to mask bitterness with sweetness could result in a just plain weird flavor. She’d put in vegetables along with medicinal herbs that helped with fatigue, and stewed it with plenty of milk and butter until the sinewy meat was soft enough that it would be easy to chew.

To be perfectly honest, many of the ingredients were rather crude for an imperial palate, but Maomao had at least tried to pick ingredients that she thought would be most effective. The broth was green—it was still medicine, in the end—but it should taste all right. The quack, Chue, and Lihaku had all given it their stamp of approval.

“Mmmhh.” Jinshi took a mouthful of soup and then let out a breath. He was sure taking his time, considering he had begged her to listen to him. The important thing was that the soup seemed to agree with him, because he went back for another spoonful, and then another, trying all the different ingredients.

I guess he’s just that hungry , Maomao thought. Once he’d had a mouthful, it seemed like he couldn’t stop, and he ate everything. He wiped his glistening lips with the back of his hand—not very princely behavior, but appropriate to a young man his age.

“We discussed who would be the leader of the western region going forward, but it was all a lot of going in circles, as we expected,” he said.

“I should imagine, sir,” Maomao replied with a quick glance at Taomei. If it had been just Suiren or Chue there, that would be one thing, but Taomei’s eyes scared her. She had to act somewhat formal and distant because she could never be quite sure what aspect of her attitude Taomei might take to be disrespectful.

“Sir Gyokuen’s other sons unanimously rejected the idea of stepping forward themselves. They each excel in his own field, but none is suited to politics. That goes for all of them. Meanwhile, Sir Gyoku-ou’s child isn’t yet studied enough in politics, or so I’m told. He’s not powerful enough to suddenly assign him acting governor.” Jinshi sounded emphatic. His fists were clenched. “So we considered Sir Gyoku-ou’s aides. They’re competent enough at their jobs, but none of them had the mettle to stand at the top.”

“I suppose they’re the kind of people who are more comfortable assisting.”

Sometimes that’s just how people were. Not everyone longed to rise relentlessly in the world. There were those who didn’t need a high station, so long as they had enough to eat. It seemed all of Gyoku-ou’s aides had possessed this disposition.

Did he go out of his way to surround himself with people like that, or did they just gravitate toward him?

If someone wanted a little bit of prestige but didn’t want to have to stand at the very top, they might be happier as an aide. Even if the ones who were too diligent could get too invested in their work and end up with stomach problems.

“We asked around among the most important and influential people in the western capital, but the answer was always no. From a mercantile perspective, it seems the disadvantages outweighed the gains.”

“They’re very much a merchant people, aren’t they, sir?”

“Yes, that’s how this town works. It’s all well and good if someone has as much power as Sir Gyokuen did, but the other merchants are all about as powerful as each other.”

Maomao didn’t know how many influential merchants there were in the western capital, but if one put himself forward too eagerly, he might well be crushed by the others. Besides, everyone had their hands full dealing with the fallout from the swarm, and it was hard to blame them if they didn’t want to take on more work.

“I thought there was one person who might fit the bill...” Jinshi said.

“Yes? Who was that?”

Yes, Maomao realized, of course Jinshi would think of him. His name had even occurred to her, after all. Above all, Chue would certainly have given a full report.

“You seem oddly...accepting of that idea,” Jinshi said, looking mildly annoyed.

Better get out ahead of this before he remembers the whole marriage proposal business and it turns silly.

“Sir, when the swarm came, I saw him stay completely calm and take action. Besides, he has the guts to survive as the freak’s right-hand man, doesn’t he?”

Objectively speaking, he was highly capable.

“Yes! Miss Chue agrees with this!” Chue said, her hand shooting into the air. A pair of predatory eyes gleamed to one side.

“Yes, well, he excused himself on the grounds that he had been sent here on behalf of the central government.”

“Figures.”

Given that Rikuson had come from the central region, it would be best if he didn’t stick his neck out too far. All just as Chue had said.

If he was from the western capital himself, maybe things would be different...

“Hrm?” Maomao said. Something about her own thought nagged at her, but she assumed it was just her imagination and ignored it.

“In fact, Rikuson said that 
I
 should lead this place!”

“He what?!” Maomao exclaimed; even she couldn’t keep herself from jumping out of her seat and talking at the top of her lungs.

The predatory eyes now lighted on Maomao. She lowered herself back into her chair, feeling a tad queasy. “What do you suppose he was thinking, sir?” she asked with studied politeness.

“Exactly what he said, I suspect. Daily business could continue as normal, with the aides handling everything. But he thought I should remain as the ‘face.’ Curse! That! Man! Rikuson!”

Yikes.

No wonder he was so tired. He seemed to be emphasizing his main point.

“But if he came here ‘on behalf,’ I’m nothing more than a visitor. Am I wrong?” Jinshi asked, looking to her.

“No, sir.”

“By all rights, I could be back in the capital by now couldn’t I? Why does everyone simply stand around and look at me? Eh?”

“Of course, sir...”

She remembered him saying that this trip would be three months at the shortest. But he never said how long it might be at the longest.

How many months has it been now? Maomao counted on her fingers. More than five months that they had spent in the western capital. Including the boat trip to get here, it had been more than half a year since they’d left the royal capital. Frankly, she wished Gyoku-ou had had the good grace to be more mindful when he got killed. Uh, not that she was glad he was dead, but couldn’t he have waited to kick the bucket until after he had resolved the misunderstandings about Jinshi, about the Imperial younger brother? He’d only fired the people up for war.

How much trouble could one old bastard cause?

Then again, what would have happened if he’d survived?

If a man with so much influence in the region had really pressed for war, even Jinshi, an Imperial family member, could only have resisted him for so long. It might have been possible to at least avoid actual war with Shaoh, but...

“But Master J-Jinshi,” Maomao said, using his name with some hesitation. The predator’s eyes were terrifying. “You intended to remain regardless, right?”

Jinshi didn’t say anything to that—meaning it was true. If he had really found it so unbearable, he could easily have just gone back home the moment the swarm hit. Considering his position, nobody could or would have complained; in fact, he’d no doubt received a letter or two encouraging him to do just that.

But that would have left the people ragged in body and soul from the swarm, with the foreign tribes attacking and no one to lead and guide them. Even in the midst of a deeply unpleasant situation, Jinshi was using his head.

“We can’t just leave the western capital like this, can we?” Maomao asked.

“You’re absolutely right.” Jinshi heaved a sigh. He was back to looking tired, and he was taking little glances at Maomao.

“What is it, sir?”

“Under the present circumstances, I think that it would be safest to return to the central region.”

Safest for 
whom
 to return, Maomao wondered, but then she realized—he meant her.

“I suppose it would be,” she allowed. He might have sent her away for her nominal safety, but she had still ended up swarmed by grasshoppers. Then an insurrection had come right to her doorstep. But this was a mistake, here. “You can’t tell me to go home, sir, not now. I guarantee you’d lose your freak strategist too.” She drove the point home.

I’d love to go home. God, how I would.

She would carry on. She had to write letters to the madam and Yao and En-en.

“If we ask ourselves, how much of a loss is the freak strategist really to the central authority, I think the honest answer is, not very much. In fact, he’s probably more use to them here, don’t you think? Even if he can make life a little noisy. And he has a Shogi companion and everything.”

“But—”

“If you want to send me off to wherever, well, if I’m just a pawn who makes no difference to the strategic situation, I guess I have no right to object. Am I a pawn to you, Master Jinshi?”

He was silent.

“Is there something you’d like to say to me?”

“Yes. I want to...” He started to answer, but refused to look her in the eye. Finally he said, “I want to have another bowl of that stew.”

“Sure,” Maomao said after a second. “I’ll go get some more.”

Apparently, she figured, this was his way of saying that she was useful enough to keep around.

She hoped the quack doctor hadn’t eaten the rest of the stew as a midnight snack. She had a naughty little thought that maybe she should have put a sign on it: For Imperial use only.