It was Rikuson whom Gyokuen chose to act as his check in the western capital.

“Why don’t you do something about him yourself?!” Rikuson had demanded, adopting a vehement tone that he hadn’t used in more than ten years. Even though he had sworn to himself that he wouldn’t speak that way again after he became Rikuson.

So it was that he came back to the western capital, Gyokuen having chosen him personally.

He was to be Gyoku-ou’s watchman—and, should anything happen, his executioner...

Rikuson suspected Gyokuyou knew about Gyokuen’s decision. She sent letters to him via Haku-u. Always using pigeons. How Rikuson had sweated while the Imperial younger brother tried to find out how the bandits were communicating! The pigeons were a special means of communication, not something to be shared with the Imperial family.

He couldn’t act in accordance with the content of Empress Gyokuyou’s letter.

He had worried; all this time, he had worried about it.

If only the man Gyoku-ou had acknowledged his own responsibility, sometime, somehow.

“Could I have been more unlucky?”

If he could have been only Gyoku-ou’s watchman.

Why did that bastard have to be 
so
 warped?

Why had no one tried to repair him?

Why had they made Rikuson do it?

No... That’s not true at all.

Rikuson had wished for this, longed for it.

To take revenge at last for his mother and sister.

And his wish had been granted.

“Now I no longer feel like doing anything at all,” he said at length.

He tried to pass off the responsibility to someone else, tried to nominate someone other than himself to lead the western capital now that Gyoku-ou was gone. In a time of peace, there might have been a few takers, but no one wanted to step into the role of acting governor with the crisis of the insect swarm still fresh.

He even started to hear people say that he himself should take the position, and that was when he finally gave voice to his thoughts: “I think you, Moon Prince, might be appropriate.”

The Imperial younger brother had gone slack-jawed. Rikuson genuinely felt bad. But he did have an insolent little thought, that at least then he would have company in the misery of being overworked.

“What shall I do?”

Rikuson was well and truly burned out. He could summon no desire to do anything, and even tried to push the things he didn’t want to do onto other people. In fact, he was ducking work at that very moment, reclining in the branches of a tree.

The purpose for which he had lived for more than ten years was gone, leaving a yawning emptiness in its place. It would not have been surprising had he simply died.

What Rikuson had done was unforgivable—but at the same time, they had lost their chance to punish him. It was cruel, and mean, and dirty. Rikuson found his own existence repulsive and hideous.

Sunlight peeked among the leaves, and small birds fluttered through the air.

When he saw them gliding effortlessly through the sky, it brought back memories of a time when he had believed that he would become the wind. When the day came for his coming-of-age ceremony, he would put on the embroidered outfit. Then he might become a merchant, or a sailor, or journey somewhere far away. Back then, so many and such grand dreams had been there for him to dream.

“Far away...”

That might be good, he thought, as he climbed down from the tree. Go somewhere there was no one else, live a wandering life, and finally fall dead in the fields somewhere.